We report a case of myeloid/lymphoid neoplasm with ZMYM2::FGFR1 rearrangement (MLNZMYM2::FGFR1) exhibiting a complex disease evolution. This neoplasm initially presented as T-lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) in lymph node and myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) with eosinophilia in bone marrow, then transitioned to systemic mastocytosis (SM) likely accompanied by additional JAK3 and other mutations and finally transformed to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) accompanied by additional/secondary genetic abnormality (gain of chromosome 21, der(13)t(8;13), and RUNX1 mutation). To our knowledge, this is the first case of MLNZMYM2::FGFR1 with a complex trilineage/phenotypic [T-cell (T-LBL), mast cell (SM), and myeloid (MPN and AML)] lineage evolution.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology and Tumor Biology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University.
We present a case study of a 73-year-old female with a history of pancytopenia. The bone marrow core biopsy was suggestive of a myelodysplastic syndrome, unspecified (MDS-U). Chromosomal analysis of the bone marrow revealed an abnormal karyotype including gain of chromosomes 1, 4, 6, 8, 9, 19, and 20 in addition to loss of chromosomes 11, 13, 15, 16, 17, and 22. Also, additional material of unknown origin was found on 3q, 5p, 9p, 11p, 13p, 14p, and 15p; there were two copies of 19p, a deletion of 8q, and numerous unidentified rings and markers were present. This was characterized as: 75~77,XXX,+1,der(1;6)(p10;p10),add(3)(q27),+4,add(5)(p15.1),+6,+8,del(8)(q24.1),+add(9)(p24),-11,add (11) (p13),-13,add(13)(p10),add(14)(p11.2),-15,add(15)(p11.2), -16,-17,+19,add(19)(p13.3)x2,+20,-22, +0~4r,+4~10mar[cp11]/46,XX[8]. The cytogenetic analysis correlates with the concurrent FISH study which was positive for additional signals of EVI1(3q26.2), TAS2R1 (5p15.31), EGR1 (5q31.2), RELN (7q22), TES (7q31) RUNX1T1 (8q21.3), ABL1 (9q34), KMT2A (11q23), PML (15q24.1), CBFB (16q22), RARA (17q21), PTPRT (20q12), MYBL2 (20q13.12), RUNX1 (21q22.12) and BCR (22q11.2). Hyperdiploid karyotypes within the context of complex structural abnormalities are rare events usually associated with a poor prognosis in MDS.
PURPOSE: To explore genomic biomarkers in rectal cancer by performing whole-exome sequencing.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Pre-chemoradiation (CRT) biopsy and post-CRT surgical specimens were obtained from 27 patients undergoing neoadjuvant CRT followed by definitive resection. Exomes were sequenced to a mean coverage of 30×. Somatic single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) and insertions/deletions (indels) were identified. Tumor mutational burden was defined as the number of SNVs or indels. Mutational signatures were extracted and fitted to COSMIC reference signatures. Tumor heterogeneity was quantified with a mutant-allele tumor heterogeneity (MATH) score. Genetic biomarkers and frequently occurred copy number alterations (CNAs) were compared between pre- and post-CRT specimens. Their associations with tumor regression grade (TRG) and clinical outcomes were explored.RESULTS: Top five mutated genes were APC, TP53, NF1, KRAS, and NOTCH1 for pre-CRT samples and APC, TP53, NF1, CREBBP, and ATM for post-CRT samples. Several gene mutations including RUNX1, EGFR, and TP53 in pre-CRT samples showed significant association with clinical outcomes, but not with TRG. However, no such association was found in post-CRT samples. Discordance of driver mutation status was found between pre- and post-CRT samples. In tumor mutational burden analysis, higher number of SNVs or indels was associated with worse treatment outcomes. Six single-base substitution (SBS) signatures identified were SBS1, SBS30, SBS29, SBS49, SBS3, and SBS44. The MATH score decreased after CRT on paired analysis. Less than half of CNAs frequent in post-CRT samples were present in pre-CRT samples.CONCLUSION: Pre- and post-CRT samples showed different genomic landscape. Potential genetic biomarkers of pre-CRT samples found in the current analysis call for external validation.
Somatic loss-of-function RUNX1 mutations in AML include missense, nonsense, and frameshift mutations, whereas germline RUNX1 variants in RUNX1-FPDMM also include large exonic deletions. Alternative variant detection approaches revealed that large exonic deletions in RUNX1 are also common in sporadic AML, which has implications for patient stratification and therapeutic decision-making.
OBJECTIVE: Legg-Calvé-Perthes disease (LCPD) is a partial or total necrosis of femoral head bone caused by blood supply disorder and its etiology is not clear. Studies have revealed that microRNA-214-3p (miR-214-3p) plays a vital role in LCPD, however, its exact mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we investigated the potential role of chondrocytes-derived exosomes carrying miR-214-3p (exos-miR-214-3p) in the pathogenesis of LCPD.METHODS: RT-qPCR was performed to evaluate miR-214-3p expression level in femoral head cartilage, serum and chondrocytes of patients with LCPD, as well as dexamethasone (DEX)-exposed TC28 cells. Effects of exos-miR-214-3p on the proliferation and apoptosis were verified via MTT assay, TUNEL staining and caspase3 activity assay. The M2 macrophage markers were assessed by flow cytometry, RT-qPCR and Western blot. Moreover, angiogenic effects of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were tested using CCK-8 and tube formation assays. Bioinformatics prediction, luciferase assay and ChIP were applied to verify the association between ATF7, RUNX1 and miR-214-3p.RESULTS: miR-214-3p was found to be decreased in patients with LCPD and DEX-treated TC28 cells, of which overexpression promoted cell proliferation and suppressed apoptosis. Mechanistically, exos-miR-214-3p facilitated M2 polarization by ATF7/TLR4 axis and HUVECs angiogenesis via RUNX1/VEGFA axis.CONCLUSION: miR-214-3p alleviates LCPD by promoting M2 polarization of macrophages and angiogenesis.
Disease progression in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myelodysplastic-myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN), and myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), altogether referred to as myeloid neoplasms (MN), is a major source of mortality. Apart from transformation to acute myeloid leukemia, the clinical progression of MN is mostly due to the overgrowth of pre-existing hematopoiesis by the MN without an additional transforming event. Still, MN may evolve along other recurrent yet less well-known scenarios: (1) acquisition of MPN features in MDS or (2) MDS features in MPN, (3) progressive myelofibrosis (MF), (4) acquisition of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML)-like characteristics in MPN or MDS, (5) development of myeloid sarcoma (MS), (6) lymphoblastic (LB) transformation, (7) histiocytic/dendritic outgrowths. These MN-transformation types exhibit a propensity for extramedullary sites (e.g., skin, lymph nodes, liver), highlighting the importance of lesional biopsies in diagnosis. Gain of distinct mutations/mutational patterns seems to be causative or at least accompanying several of the above-mentioned scenarios. MDS developing MPN features often acquire MPN driver mutations (usually JAK2), and MF. Conversely, MPN gaining MDS features develop, e.g., ASXL1, IDH1/2, SF3B1, and/or SRSF2 mutations. Mutations of RAS-genes are often detected in CMML-like MPN progression. MS ex MN is characterized by complex karyotypes, FLT3 and/or NPM1 mutations, and often monoblastic phenotype. MN with LB transformation is associated with secondary genetic events linked to lineage reprogramming leading to the deregulation of ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5, PU.1, and RUNX1. Finally, the acquisition of MAPK-pathway gene mutations may shape MN toward histiocytic differentiation. Awareness of all these less well-known MN-progression types is important to guide optimal individual patient management.
Gene mutations play an important role in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) by not only promoting the occurrence and progression of HNSCC but also affecting sensitivity to treatment and prognosis. KRAS is one of the most frequently mutated oncogenes, which has been reported to have a mutation rate from 1.7% to 12.7% and may lead to poor prognosis in HNSCC, but its role remains unclear. Here, we found that the KRAS mutation can promote HNSCC generation through synergism with 4-Nitroquinoline-1-Oxide(4NQO). Mechanistically, KRAS mutations can significantly upregulate Runx1 to promote oral epithelial cell proliferation and migration and inhibit apoptosis. Runx1 inhibitor Ro 5-3335 can effectively inhibit KRAS-mutated HNSCC progression both in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest that the KRAS mutation plays an important role in HNSCC and that Runx1 may be a novel therapeutic target for KRAS-mutated HNSCC.
Intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 defines a subtype of high-risk childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (iAMP21-ALL) characterized by copy number changes and complex rearrangements of chromosome 21. The genomic basis of iAMP21-ALL and the pathogenic role of the region of amplification of chromosome 21 to leukemogenesis remain incompletely understood. Here, using integrated whole genome and transcriptome sequencing of 124 iAMP21-ALL patients, including rare cases arising in the context of constitutional chromosomal aberrations, we identified subgroups of iAMP21-ALL according to patterns of copy number alteration and structural variation. This large dataset enabled formal delineation of a 7.8 Mb common region of amplification harboring 71 genes, 43 of which are differentially expressed compared to non-iAMP21-ALL cases, and including multiple genes implicated in the pathogenesis of acute leukemia: CHAF1B, DYRK1A, ERG, HMGN1 and RUNX1. Using multimodal single cell genomic profiling, including single cell whole genome sequencing of two cases, we documented clonal heterogeneity and genomic evolution, formally demonstrating that acquisition of the iAMP21-chromosome is an early event that may undergo progressive amplification during disease ontogeny. We show that UV mutational signatures and high mutation load are characteristic secondary genetic features. Although the genomic alterations of chromosome 21 are variable, these integrated genomic analyses and demonstration of an extended common minimal region of amplification broaden the definition of iAMP21-ALL for more precise diagnosis using cytogenetic or genomic methods to inform clinical management.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is oncogenic in diverse types of leukemia and epithelial cancers where its expression is associated with poor prognosis. Current models suggest that RUNX1 cooperates with other oncogenic factors (e.g., NOTCH1, TAL1) to drive the expression of proto-oncogenes in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) but the molecular mechanisms controlled by RUNX1 and its cooperation with other factors remain unclear. Integrative chromatin and transcriptional analysis following inhibition of RUNX1 and NOTCH1 revealed a surprisingly widespread role of RUNX1 in the establishment of global H3K27ac levels and that RUNX1 is required by NOTCH1 for cooperative transcription activation of key NOTCH1 target genes including MYC, DTX1, HES4, IL7R, and NOTCH3. Super-enhancers were preferentially sensitive to RUNX1 knockdown and RUNX1-dependent super-enhancers were disrupted following the treatment of a pan-BET inhibitor, I-BET151.
S. Karger AG, Basel.
Whether the LSC17 gene expression can improve risk stratification in the context of NGS-based risk stratification and measurable residual disease (MRD) in AML patients treated intensively has not been explored. We analyzed LSC17 in 504 adult patients prospectively treated in the ALFA-0702 trial. Multiple (cyto)genetic alterations were associated with changes in LSC17, such as higher LSC17 in patients with RUNX1 or TP53 mutations, and lower scores in those with CEBPA and NPM1 mutations. LSC17-high patients had a lower rate of complete response (CR) or CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) after one induction course in a multivariable analysis (OR=0.41, p=0.0007) accounting for European LeukemiaNet 2022 (ELN22) risk groups, age, and white blood cell (WBC) count. The LSC17-high status was associated with shorter overall survival (OS) (3-year OS: 70.0% versus 52.7% in LSC17-low patients, p<0.0001). In a multivariable analysis considering ELN22, age and WBC count, LSC17-high patients had shorter disease-free survival (DFS) (HR=1.36, p=0.048) compared to LSC17-low patients. In 123 NPM1-mutated patients in CR/CRp with available MRD data, LSC17-high status predicted poorer DFS (HR=2.34, p=0.01) independently of age, WBC count, ELN22 risk, and NPM1-MRD. Combining MRD and LSC17 status identified a subset of 48% of NPM1 patients with LSC17-low status and negative NPM1-MRD with a 3-year OS from CR/CRp of 93.1% compared to 60.7% in those with LSC17-high status and/or positive NPM1-MRD (p=0.0001). Overall, LSC17 assessment refines genetic risk stratification in adult AML patients treated intensively. Combined with MRD, LSC17 identifies a subset of NPM1-mutated AML patients with excellent clinical outcome.
BACKGROUND: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a clinical and pathophysiological complex syndrome with high mortality. Alveolar hypercoagulation and fibrinolytic inhibition constitute the core part of the pathophysiology of ARDS. miR-9 (microRNA-9a-5p) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ARDS, but whether it regulates alveolar pro-coagulation and fibrinolysis inhibition in ARDS remains to be elucidated. We aimed to determine the contributing role of miR-9 on alveolar hypercoagulation and fibrinolysis inhibition in ARDS.METHODS: In the ARDS animal model, we first observed the miR-9 and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) expression in lung tissue, the effects of miR-9 on alveolar hypercoagulation and fibrinolytic inhibition in ARDS rats, and the efficacy of miR-9 on acute lung injury. In the cell, alveolar epithelial cells type II (AECII) were treated with LPS, and the levels of miR-9 and RUNX1 were detected. Then we observed the effects of miR-9 on procoagulant and fibrinolysis inhibitor factors in cells. Finally, we explored whether the efficacies of miR-9 were associated with RUNX1; we also preliminarily examined the miR-9 and RUNX1 levels in plasma in patients with ARDS.RESULTS: In ARDS rats, miR-9 expression decreased, but RUNX1 expression increased in the pulmonary tissue of ARDS rats. miR-9 displayed to attenuate lung injury and pulmonary wet/dry ratio. Study results in vivo demonstrated that miR-9 ameliorated alveolar hypercoagulation and fibrinolysis inhibition and attenuated the collagen III expressions in tissue. miR-9 also inhibited NF-κB signaling pathway activation in ARDS. In LPS-induced AECII, the expression changes of both miR-9 and RUNX1 were similar to those in pulmonary tissue in the animal ARDS model. miR-9 effectively inhabited tissue factor (TF), plasma activator inhibitor (PAI-1) expressions, and NF-κB activation in LPS-treated ACEII cells. Besides, miR-9 directly targeted RUNX1, inhibiting TF and PAI-1 expression and attenuating NF-κB activation in LPS-treated AECII cells. Clinically, we preliminarily found that the expression of miR-9 was significantly reduced in ARDS patients compared to non-ARDS patients.CONCLUSION: Our experimental data indicate that by directly targeting RUNX1, miR-9 improves alveolar hypercoagulation and fibrinolysis inhibition via suppressing NF-κB pathway activation in LPS-induced rat ARDS, implying that miR-9/RUNX1 is expected to be a new therapeutic target for ARDS treatment.
In this issue of PIH, we asked four researchers to write about basic research on the molecular mechanisms of the development of myeloid malignancies, in particular two epigenetic regulation and two space- and time-dependent factors. Regarding epigenomic regulation, Dr. Yang reviewed ASXL1, a polycomb modifier gene that is often mutated in myeloid malignancies, but also in clonal hematopoiesis in healthy elderly people, and Dr. Vu reviewed RNA modifications, which are critical for development and tissue homeostasis, and are now recognized as an important driver for cancer development. Regarding spatiotemporal factors, Dr. Inoue reviewed the role of extracellular vesicles in leukemic stem cell niches. As some cancers develop preferentially in infancy or old age, Dr. Osato discussed the time-specific development of leukemia involving the RUNX1-ETO mutation, which is often found in leukemia in adolescents and young adults. Recent studies on hematopoietic development have shown that hematopoietic stem cells do not generate multipotent progenitor cells, but that these cells develop in parallel. We hope that reconsideration of the definition of leukemic stem cells and their origin will help us understand the regulatory mechanisms of these cells, but also enable us to develop future therapies by targeting factors that regulate the leukemic stem cell and the niche.
The RUNX family of transcription factors, including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3, are key regulators of development and can function as either tumor suppressors or oncogenes in cancer. Emerging evidence suggests that the dysregulation of RUNX genes can promote genomic instability in both leukemia and solid cancers by impairing DNA repair mechanisms. RUNX proteins control the cellular response to DNA damage by regulating the p53, Fanconi anemia, and oxidative stress repair pathways through transcriptional or non-transcriptional mechanisms. This review highlights the importance of RUNX-dependent DNA repair regulation in human cancers.
In acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) RUNX1 mutation is characterised by certain clinicopathological features with poor prognosis and adverse risk by the European LeukemiaNet recommendation. Though initially considered as provisional category, the recent World Health Organisation (WHO) classification of 2022 removed RUNX1-mutated AML from the unique entity. However, the significance of RUNX1 mutation in paediatric AML remains unclear. We retrospectively analysed a German cohort of 488 paediatric patients with de novo AML, enroled in the AMLR12 or AMLR17 registry of the AML-BFM Study Group (Essen, Germany). A total of 23 paediatric AML patients (4.7%) harboured RUNX1 mutations, 18 of which (78%) had RUNX1 mutation at initial diagnosis. RUNX1 mutations were associated with older age, male gender, number of coexisting alterations and presence of FLT3-ITD but mutually exclusive of KRAS, KIT and NPM1 mutation. RUNX1 mutations did not prognostically impact overall or event-free survival. Response rates did not differ between patients with and without RUNX1 mutations. This comprehensive study, comprising the largest analysis of RUNX1 mutation in a paediatric cohort to date, reveals distinct but not unique clinicopathologic features, with no prognostic significance of RUNX1-mutated paediatric AML. These results broaden the perspective on the relevance of RUNX1 alterations in leukaemogenesis in AML.
BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a syndrome defined as decline of cognitive function greater than expected for an individual's age and education level, occurs in up to 22.7% of elderly patients in United States, causing the heavy psychological and economic burdens to families and society. Cellular senescence (CS) is a stress response that accompanies permanent cell-cycle arrest, which has been reported to be a fundamental pathological mechanism of many age-related diseases. This study aims to explore biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets in MCI based on CS.METHODS: The mRNA expression profiles of peripheral blood samples from patients in MCI and non-MCI group were download from gene expression omnibus (GEO) database (GSE63060 for training and GSE18309 for external validation), CS-related genes were obtained from CellAge database. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was conducted to discover the key relationships behind the co-expression modules. The differentially expressed CS-related genes would be obtained through overlapping among the above datasets. Then, pathway and GO enrichment analyses were performed to further elucidate the mechanism of MCI. The protein-protein interaction network was used to extract hub genes and the logistic regression was performed to distinguish the MCI patients from controls. The hub gene-drug network, hub gene-miRNA network as well as transcription factor-gene regulatory network were used to analyze potential therapeutic targets for MCI.RESULTS: Eight CS-related genes were identified as key gene signatures in MCI group, which were mainly enriched in the regulation of response to DNA damage stimulus, Sin3 complex and transcription corepressor activity. The receiver operating characteristic curves of logistic regression diagnostic model were constructed and presented great diagnostic value in both training and validation set.CONCLUSION: Eight CS-related hub genes - SMARCA4, GAPDH, SMARCB1, RUNX1, SRC, TRIM28, TXN, and PRPF19 - serve as candidate biomarkers for MCI and display the excellent diagnostic value. Furthermore, we also provide a theoretical basis for targeted therapy against MCI through the above hub genes.
Although the definitions of sinonasal neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal neoplasms did not change substantially in the 5th edition WHO Classification of Head and Neck Tumours, the diagnosis of olfactory neuroblastoma (ONB), small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma, and large cell neuroendocrine carcinoma remains quite challenging in practice. Ambiguities surrounding the amount of keratin expression allowable in ONB and the amount of neuroendocrine differentiation seen in sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (SNUC) lead to significant diagnostic discrepancies at the high grade end of this tumor spectrum. Furthermore, a group of problematic neuroepithelial tumors that show overlapping features of ONB and neuroendocrine carcinoma have never been recognized in formal classification schemes. Since publication of the 5th edition WHO, two new tumor entities have been proposed that help resolve these problems. Olfactory carcinoma is defined by high grade keratin-positive neuroectodermal cells with frequent intermixed glands and shows recurrent Wnt pathway, ARID1A, and RUNX1 alterations. IDH2-mutant sinonasal carcinoma is a molecularly-defined category that encompasses tumors with undifferentiated (SNUC), large cell neuroendocrine, and neuroepithelial phenotypes. This review will provide a practical overview of these emerging entities and their application to diagnostic challenges in the post-WHO sinonasal neuroendocrine and neuroectodermal tumor classification.
DNA methylation is one of the epigenetic mechanisms involved in opioid use disorder. GAD2 is a key catalyticase in gamma amino butyric acid (GABA) synthesis from glutamate, that is implicated in opioid-induced rewarding effect. To reveal the relationship and the underlying mechanism between GAD2 gene methylation and opioid use disorder, we first examined and compared the methylation levels in the promoter region of the GAD2 gene in peripheral blood between 120 patients with opioid use disorder and 110 healthy controls by using a targeted approach. A diagnostic model with methylation biomarkers was established to distinguish opioid use disorder and healthy control groups. Correlations between methylation levels in the promoter region of the GAD2 gene and the duration and dosage of opioid use were then determined. Finally, the transcription factors that potentially bind to the target sequences including the detected CpG sites were predicted with the JASPAR database. Our results demonstrated that hypermethylation in the promoter region of the GAD2 gene was associated with opioid use disorder. A diagnostic model based on 10 methylation biomarkers could distinguish the opioid use disorder and healthy control groups. Several correlations between methylation levels in the GAD2 gene promoter and the duration and dosage of opioid use were observed. Transcription factors TFAP2A, Arnt and Runx1 were predicted to bind to the target sequences including several CpG sites detected in the present study in the GAD2 gene promoter. Our findings highlight and extend the role of DNA methylation in the GAD2 gene in opioid use disorder.
The calcification of the aortic valve causes increased leaflet stiffness and leads to the development and progression of stenotic aortic valve disease. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying stenotic calcification remain poorly understood. Herein, we examined the gene expression associated with valve calcification and the progression of calcific aortic valve stenosis. We downloaded two publicly available gene expression profiles (GSE83453 and GSE51472) from NCBI-Gene Expression Omnibus database for the combined analysis of samples from human aortic stenosis and normal aortic valve tissue. After identifying the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the GEO2R online tool, we performed Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses. We also analyzed the protein-protein interactions (PPIs) of the DEGs using the NetworkAnalyst online tool. We identified 4603 upregulated and 6272 downregulated DEGs, which were enriched in the positive regulation of cell adhesion, leukocyte-mediated immunity, response to hormones, cytokine signaling in the immune system, lymphocyte activation, and growth hormone receptor signaling. PPI network analysis identified 10 hub genes: VCAM1, FHL2, RUNX1, TNFSF10, PLAU, SPOCK1, CD74, SIPA1L2, TRIB1, and CXCL12. Through bioinformatic analysis, we identified potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for aortic stenosis, providing a theoretical basis for future studies.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a myeloid neoplasm associated with a high morbidity and mortality. The diagnosis, risk stratification and therapy selection in AML have changed substantially in the last decade with the progressive incorporation of clinically relevant molecular markers.METHODS: In this work, our aim was to describe a real-world genomic profiling experience in AML and to demonstrate the impact of the European Leukemia Net 2022 update on risk stratification in AML.RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: One hundred and forty-one patients were evaluated with an amplicon-based multi-gene next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel. The most commonly mutated genes were FLT3, DNMT3A, RUNX1, IDH2, NPM1, ASXL1, SRSF2, NRAS, TP53 and TET2. Detection of FLT3 ITD with NGS had a sensitivity of 96.3% when compared to capillary electrophoresis. According to ELN 2017, 26.6%, 20.1%, and 53.3% of patients were classified as having a good, moderate, or unfavorable risk. When ELN 2022 was used, 15.6%, 27.8%, and 56.6% of patients were classified as favorable, moderate, or unfavorable risk, respectively. When ELN 2022 was compared to ELN 2017, thirteen patients (14.4%) exhibited a different risk classification, with a significant decrease in the number of favorable risk patients, what has immediate clinical impact.CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we have described a real-world genomic profiling experience in AML and the impact of the 2022 ELN update on risk stratification.
Autologous and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has revolutionized the therapy of hematolymphoid malignancies. Yet, how to best detect or predict the emergence of HSCT-related complications remain unresolved. Here, we describe a case of donor-derived, transient Alpha Beta (αβ) T-cell large granular clonal lymphocytosis and cytopenia that emerged post-HSCT in a patient with a history of gamma delta (γδ) T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia (T-LGLL). Clonal unrelatedness of post-transplant T-LGL lymphocytosis to the patient's pretransplant T-LGLL was first identified by T-cell receptor (TCR) PCR showing different sized fragments of rearranged gamma chains, in addition to shift from γδ to αβ TCR expression by flow cytometry analyses. Donor-derivation of the patient's post-transplant clonal lymphocytosis was confirmed by serial chimerism analyses of recipient's blood specimens demonstrating 100% donor DNA. Moreover, oncogenic DNMT3A and RUNX1 mutations were detected by next-generation sequencing (NGS) only in post-transplant specimens. Intriguingly, despite continued increase in DNMT3A and RUNX1 mutation load, the patient's clonal lymphocytosis and anemia eventually largely resolved; yet, the observed mutation profile with persistent thrombocytopenia indicated secondary clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) in the absence of overt morphologic evidence of myeloid neoplasm in the marrow. This case illustrates the utility of longitudinal chimerism analysis and NGS testing combined with flow cytometric immunophenotyping to evaluate emerging donor-derived hematolymphoid processes and to properly interpret partial functional engraftment. It may also support the notion that driver mutation-induced microenvironmental changes may paradoxically contribute to reestablishing tissue homeostasis.
Postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMOP) brings a lot of inconvenience to patients and serious economic burden to society. The osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) plays vital role in the process of PMOP treatment. However, the functional mechanism remains unclear. In this study, GATA4, MALAT1 and KHSRP were downregulated in bone tissues of PMOP patients, while NEDD4 was overexpressed. Through functional experiments, GATA4 overexpression strikingly accelerated osteogenic differentiation of BMSCs and promoted bone formation in vitro and in vivo, while these effects were dramatically reversed after MALAT1 silence. Intermolecular interaction experiments confirmed that GATA4 activated the transcription of MALAT1, which could form a 'RNA-protein' complex with KHSRP to decay NEDD4 mRNA. NEDD4 promoted the degradation of Runx1 by ubiquitination. Moreover, NEDD4 silencing blocked the inhibitory effects of MALAT1 knockdown on BMSCs osteogenic differentiation. In sum up, GATA4-activated MALAT1 promoted BMSCs osteogenic differentiation via regulating KHSPR/NEDD4 axis-regulated RUNX1 degradation, ultimately improving PMOP.
IKZF1 deletions are an established prognostic factor in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, their relevance in patients with good risk genetics, namely ETV6::RUNX1 and high hyperdiploid (HeH), ALL remains unclear. We assessed the prognostic impact of IKZF1 deletions in 939 ETV6::RUNX1 and 968 HeH ALL patients by evaluating data from 16 trials from 9 study groups. Only 3% of ETV6::RUNX1 cases (n = 26) were IKZF1-deleted; this adversely affected survival combining all trials (5-year event-free survival [EFS], 79% versus 92%; P = 0.02). No relapses occurred among the 14 patients with an IKZF1 deletion treated on a minimal residual disease (MRD)-guided protocols. Nine percent of HeH cases (n = 85) had an IKZF1 deletion; this adversely affected survival in all trials (5-year EFS, 76% versus 89%; P = 0.006) and in MRD-guided protocols (73% versus 88%; P = 0.004). HeH cases with an IKZF1 deletion had significantly higher end of induction MRD values (P = 0.03). Multivariate Cox regression showed that IKZF1 deletions negatively affected survival independent of sex, age, and white blood cell count at diagnosis in HeH ALL (hazard ratio of relapse rate [95% confidence interval]: 2.48 [1.32-4.66]). There was no evidence to suggest that IKZF1 deletions affected outcome in the small number of ETV6::RUNX1 cases in MRD-guided protocols but that they are related to higher MRD values, higher relapse, and lower survival rates in HeH ALL. Future trials are needed to study whether stratifying by MRD is adequate for HeH patients or additional risk stratification is necessary.
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with t (8;21) or inv (16), called core binding factor (CBF) AML, has a favourable prognosis. However, some CBF-AML patients have persistent measurable residual disease (MRD) and are more likely to relapse after standard chemotherapy treatment. The CAG regimen, composed of cytarabine, aclarubicin and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, has been proven to be effective and safe in treating refractory AML patients. We performed a retrospective study to evaluate the efficacy of the CAG regimen to eliminate MRD detected by RUNX1::RUNX1T1 and CBFβ::MYH11 transcript levels by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (Q-PCR) among 23 patients. Molecular response was defined as the ratio of fusion transcript after treatment to that before treatment less than or equal to 0.5. The molecular response rate and median decrease ratio of fusion transcripts at the molecular level of the CAG regimen were 52% and 0.53, respectively. The median fusion transcripts before CAG treatment was 0.25% whereas after CAG was 0.11%. Among the 15 patients who had a poor molecular response to the high/intermediate-dose cytarabine regimen, the median decrease ratios of transcripts at the molecular level of high/intermediate-dose cytarabine and CAG were 1.55 and 0.53 (P = 0.028), respectively, and 6 of 15 patients achieved a molecular response to CAG (40%). The median disease-free survival was 18 months, and the overall survival rate at 3 years among all patients was 72.7% ± 10.7%. The common grades 3-4 adverse events were nausea (100%), thrombocytopenia (39%) and neutropenia (37.5%). The CAG regimen may have activity in CBF-AML patients and could provide a new option for patients who have a poor molecular response to high/intermediate-dose cytarabine.
Somatic mutational profiling is increasingly being used to identify potential targets for breast cancer. However, limited tumor-sequencing data from Hispanic/Latinas (H/L) are available to guide treatment. To address this gap, we performed whole exome sequencing (WES) and RNA-sequencing on 146 tumors and WES of matched germline DNA from 140 H/L women in California. Tumor intrinsic subtype, somatic mutations, copy number alterations, and expression profiles of the tumors were characterized and compared to data from tumors of non-Hispanic White (White) women in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Eight genes were significantly mutated in the H/L tumors including PIK3CA, TP53, GATA3, MAP3K1, CDH1, CBFB, PTEN, and RUNX1; the prevalence of mutations in these genes was similar to that observed in White women in TCGA. Four previously reported COSMIC mutation signatures (1, 2, 3, 13) were found in the H/L dataset, along with signature 16 that has not been previously reported in other breast-cancer datasets. Recurrent amplifications were observed in breast-cancer drivers including MYC, FGFR1, CCND1, and ERBB2, as well as a recurrent amplification in 17q11.2 associated with high KIAA0100 gene expression that has been implicated in breast-cancer aggressiveness. In conclusion, this study identified a higher prevalence of COSMIC signature 16 and a recurrent copy number amplification affecting expression of KIAA0100 in breast tumors from H/L compared to White women. These results highlight the necessity of studying under-represented populations.
ETV6 mutations are rare but recurrent somatic events in myeloid neoplasms and are negatively prognostic in myelodysplastic syndrome. We set out to examine the clinical and molecular characteristics of patients undergoing investigation for myeloid neoplasms, found to have deleterious ETV6 mutations. ETV6 mutations occurred in 33 of 5793 (0.6%) cases investigated and predominantly in high-risk disease entities including MDS with increased blasts, primary myelofibrosis and AML, myelodysplasia-related. In three cases, isolated iso (17q) karyotype was concurrently detected, an otherwise rare karyotype in myeloid neoplasms. ETV6 mutations were frequently subclonal and never occurred as an isolated abnormality with ASXL1 (n = 22, 75%), SRSF2 (n = 14, 42%) and SETBP1 (n = 11, 33%) the predominant co-mutations. Restricting to patients with MDS, higher rates of ASXL1, SETBP1, RUNX1 and U2AF1 mutations occurred in ETV6 mutated cases, relative to a consecutive control cohort with wild-type ETV6. The median OS of the cohort was 17.5 months. This report highlights the clinical and molecular associations of somatic ETV6 mutations in myeloid neoplasms, suggests their occurrence as a later event, and proposes further translational research questions for their role in myeloid neoplasia.
T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia (T-LGL) is often accompanied by pure red cell aplasia (PRCA). A high depth of next generation sequencing (NGS) was used for detection of the mutational profiles in T-LGL alone (n = 25) and T-LGL combined with PRCA (n = 16). Beside STAT3 mutation (41.5%), the frequently mutated genes included KMT2D (17.1%), TERT (12.2%), SUZ12 (9.8%), BCOR (7.3%), DNMT3A (7.3%), and RUNX1 (7.3%). Mutations of the TERT promoter showed a good response to treatment. 3 of 41 (7.3%) T-LGL patients with diverse gene mutations were revealed as T-LGL combined with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) after review of bone marrow slide. T-LGL combined with PRCA showed unique features (low VAF level of STAT3 mutation, low lymphocyte count, old age). Low ANC was detected in a STAT3 mutant with a low level of VAF, suggesting that even the low mutational burden of STAT3 is sufficient for reduction of ANC. In retrospective analysis of 591 patients without T-LGL, one MDS patient with STAT3 mutation was revealed to have subclinical T-LGL. T-LGL combined with PRCA may be classified as unique subtype of T-LGL. High depth NGS can enable sensitive detection of concomitant MDS in T-LGL. Mutation of the TERT promoter may indicate good response to treatment of T-LGL, thus, its addition to an NGS panel may be recommended.
Neovascular eye diseases include conditions such as retinopathy of prematurity, proliferative diabetic retinopathy, and neovascular age-related macular degeneration. Together, they are a major cause of vision loss and blindness worldwide. The current therapeutic mainstay for these diseases is intravitreal injections of biologics targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) signaling. Lack of universal response to these anti-VEGF agents coupled with the challenging delivery method underscore a need for new therapeutic targets and agents. In particular, proteins that mediate both inflammatory and proangiogenic signaling are appealing targets for new therapeutic development. Here, we review agents currently in clinical trials and highlight some promising targets in preclinical and early clinical development, focusing on the redox-regulatory transcriptional activator APE1/Ref-1, the bioactive lipid modulator soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH), the transcription factor RUNX1, and others. Small molecules targeting each of these proteins show promise for blocking neovascularization and inflammation. The affected signaling pathways illustrate the potential of new antiangiogenic strategies for posterior ocular disease. Significance Statement Discovery and therapeutic targeting of new angiogenesis mediators is necessary to improve treatment of blinding eye diseases like retinopathy of prematurity, diabetic retinopathy, and neovascular age-related macular degeneration. Novel targets undergoing evaluation and drug discovery work include proteins important for both angiogenesis and inflammation signaling, including APE1/Ref-1, soluble epoxide hydrolase, RUNX1, and others.
Cancer is a very rare event at the cellular level, although it is a common disease at the body level as one third of humans die of cancer. A small subset of cells in the body harbor the cellular features that constitute a permissive window for a particular genetic change to induce cancer. The significance of a permissive window is ironically best shown by a large number of failures in generating the animal model for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(8;21). Over the decades, the RUNX1-ETO fusion gene created by t(8;21) has been introduced into various types of hematopoietic cells, largely at adult stage, in mice; however, all the previous attempts failed to generate tractable AML models. In stark contrast, we recently succeeded in inducing AML with the clinical features seen in human patients by specifically introducing RUNX1-ETO in childhood hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). This result in mice is consistent with adolescent and young adult (AYA) onset in human t(8;21) patients, and suggests that childhood HSCs constitute the permissive window for RUNX1-ETO leukemogenesis. If loss of a permissive window is induced pharmacologically, cancer cells might be selectively targeted. Such a permissive window modifier may serve as a novel therapeutic drug.
The zebrafish is a unique model to understand hematopoietic niches as hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells are maintained in the kidney. However, little is known about which cell types in the kidney play a role in hematopoietic niches. Here, we demonstrate that the sinusoidal endothelium is an essential and conserved niche component in the zebrafish kidney. Histological analysis revealed that runx1:mCherry + hematopoietic cells were predominantly detected in the dorsolateral region of the kidney where sinusoids are highly developed. Loss of Junctional adhesion molecule 1a (Jam1a), which is expressed in both sinusoidal endothelial cells and hematopoietic cells, resulted in a remarkable reduction in sinusoids and a defect in hematopoietic niches. We found that Jam1a regulates jagged-1a expression in vascular endothelial cells to form a sinusoidal structure in the kidney. Collectively, these data suggest that sinusoids are formed by Jam1a via endothelial Notch signaling to provide hematopoietic niches in the zebrafish kidney.
In parallel to the 5th edition of the World Health Organization Classification of Haematolymphoid Tumours (WHO 2022), an alternative International Consensus Classification (ICC) has been proposed. To evaluate the impact of the new classifications on AML diagnoses and ELN-based risk classification, we analyzed 717 MDS and 734 AML non-therapy-related patients diagnosed according to the revised 4th WHO edition (WHO 2017) by whole genome and transcriptome sequencing. In both new classifications, the purely morphologically defined AML entities decreased from 13% to 5%. Myelodysplasia-related (MR) AML increased from 22% to 28% (WHO 2022) and 26% (ICC). Other genetically-defined AML remained the largest group, and the abandoned AML-RUNX1 was mainly reclassified as AML-MR (WHO 2022: 77%; ICC: 96%). Different inclusion criteria of AML-CEBPA and AML-MR (i.a. exclusion of TP53 mutated cases according to ICC) were associated with differences in overall survival. In conclusion, both classifications focus on more genetics-based definitions with similar basic concepts and a large degree of agreement. The remaining non-comparability (e.g., TP53 mutated AML) needs additional studies to definitely answer open questions on disease categorization in an unbiased way.
Tremendous strides have been made in the molecular and cytogenetic classification of acute lymphoblastic leukemia based on gene expression profiling data, leading to an expansion of entities in the recent International Consensus Classification (ICC) of myeloid neoplasms and acute leukemias and 2022 WHO Classification of Tumours: Haematolymphoid Tumors, 5th edition. This increased diagnostic and therapeutic complexity can be overwhelming, and this review compares nomenclature differences between the ICC and WHO 5th edition publications, compiles key features of each entity, and provides a diagnostic algorithmic approach. In covering B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), we divided the entities into established (those present in the revised 4th edition WHO) and novel (those added to either the ICC or WHO 5th edition) groups. The established B-ALL entities include B-ALL with BCR::ABL1 fusion, BCR::ABL1-like features, KMT2A rearrangement, ETV6::RUNX1 rearrangement, high hyperdiploidy, hypodiploidy (focusing on near haploid and low hypodiploid), IGH::IL3 rearrangement, TCF3::PBX1 rearrangement, and iAMP21. The novel B-ALL entities include B-ALL with MYC rearrangement; DUX4 rearrangement; MEF2D rearrangement; ZNF384 or ZNF362 rearrangement, NUTM1 rearrangement; HLF rearrangement; UBTF::ATXN7L3/PAN3,CDX2; mutated IKZF1 N159Y; mutated PAX5 P80R; ETV6::RUNX1-like features; PAX5 alteration; mutated ZEB2 (p.H1038R)/IGH::CEBPE; ZNF384 rearranged-like; KMT2A-rearranged-like; and CRLF2 rearrangement (non-Ph-like). Classification of T-ALL is complex with some variability in how the subtypes are defined in recent literature. It was classified as early T-precursor lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma and T-ALL, NOS in the WHO revised 4th edition and WHO 5th edition. The ICC added an entity into early T-cell precursor ALL, BCL11B-activated, and also added provisional entities subclassified based on transcription factor families that are aberrantly activated.
Background: Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a widespread diabetic complication and a major cause of terminal kidney disease. There is no doubt that DN is a chronic disease that imposes substantial health and economic burdens on the world's populations. By now, several important and exciting advances have been made in research on etiopathogenesis. Therefore, the genetic mechanisms underlying these effects remain unknown. Methods: The GSE30122, GSE30528, and GSE30529 microarray datasets were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database (GEO). Analyses of differentially expressed genes (DEGs), enrichment of gene ontology (GO), the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were performed. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction was completed by the STRING database. Hub genes were identified by Cytoscape software, and common hub genes were identified by taking intersection sets. The diagnostic value of common hub genes was then predicted in the GSE30529 and GSE30528 datasets. Further analysis was carried out on the modules to identify transcription factors and miRNA networks. As well, a comparative toxicogenomics database was used to assess interactions between potential key genes and diseases associated upstream of DN. Results: Samples from 19 DNs and 50 normal controls were identified in the GSE30122 dataset. 86 upregulated genes and 34 downregulated genes (a total of 120 DEGs). GO analysis showed significant enrichment in humoral immune response, protein activation cascade, complement activation, extracellular matrix, glycosaminoglycan binding, and antigen binding. KEGG analysis showed significant enrichment in complement and coagulation cascades, phagosomes, the Rap1 signaling pathway, the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and infection. GSEA was mainly enriched in the TYROBP causal network, the inflammatory response pathway, chemokine receptor binding, the interferon signaling pathway, ECM receptor interaction, and the integrin 1 pathway. Meanwhile, mRNA-miRNA and mRNA-TF networks were constructed for common hub genes. Nine pivotal genes were identified by taking the intersection. After validating the expression differences and diagnostic values of the GSE30528 and GSE30529 datasets, eight pivotal genes (TYROBP, ITGB2, CD53, IL10RA, LAPTM5, CD48, C1QA, and IRF8) were finally identified as having diagnostic values. Conclusion: Pathway enrichment analysis scores provide insight into the genetic phenotype and may propose molecular mechanisms of DN. The target genes TYROBP, ITGB2, CD53, IL10RA, LAPTM5, CD48, C1QA, and IRF8 are promising new targets for DN. SPI1, HIF1A, STAT1, KLF5, RUNX1, MBD1, SP1, and WT1 may be involved in the regulatory mechanisms of DN development. Our study may provide a potential biomarker or therapeutic locus for the study of DN.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the impact of pretransplant measurable residual disease (pre-MRD) and the efficacy of maintenance therapy in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT).METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 100 t(8;21) AML patients who underwent allo-HCT between 2013 and 2022. 40 patients received pre-emptive therapy including immunosuppressant adjustment, azacitidine, and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) combined with chemotherapy. 23 patients received prophylactic therapy, including azacitidine or chidamide.RESULTS: Patients with a positive pre-MRD (pre-MRDpos) had a higher 3-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) (25.90% [95% CI, 13.87%-39.70%] vs 5.00% [95% CI, 0.88%-15.01%]; P = 0.008). Pre-MRDpos patients were less likely to have a superior 3-year disease-free survival (DFS) (40.83% [95% CI, 20.80%-80.16%]) if their MRD was still positive at 28 days after transplantation (post-MRD28pos). The 3-year DFS and CIR were 53.17% (95% CI, 38.31% - 73.80%) and 34.87% (95% CI, 18.84% - 51.44%), respectively, for patients receiving pre-emptive interventions after molecular relapse. The 3-year DFS and CIR were 90.00% (95%CI, 77.77% - 100%) and 5.00% (95%CI, 0.31% - 21.10%), respectively, for high-risk patients receiving prophylactic therapy. In most patients, epigenetic-drug-induced adverse events were reversible with dose adjustment or temporary discontinuation.CONCLUSION: Patients with pre-MRDpos and post-MRD28pos were more likely to have higher rates of relapse and inferior DFS, even after receiving pre-emptive interventions. Prophylactic therapy may be a better option for high-risk t(8;21) AML patients; however, this warrants further investigation.
Pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a poor prognostic subtype of pediatric leukemia. However, the detailed characteristics of many genetic abnormalities are yet to be established in this disease. Although TP53 and RB1 are established as representative tumor suppressor genes in various cancers, alterations of these two genes, especially RB1, have not been characterized in pediatric AML. We performed next-generation sequencing in 328 pediatric AML patients from the Japanese AML-05 trial to ascertain TP53 and RB1 alterations, and their prognostic implications. We identified seven patients with TP53 alterations (2.1%) and six patients with RB1 alterations (1.8%). These alterations were found in only patients without RUNX1::RUNX1T1, CBFB::MYH11, or KMT2A rearrangements. TP53 and RB1 were frequently co-deleted with their neighboring genes PRPF8 and ELF1, respectively. Patients with TP53 alterations had significantly lower 5-year overall survival (OS; 14.3% vs. 71.4%, p < 0.001) and lower 5-year event-free survival (EFS; 0% vs. 56.3%, p < 0.001); similarly, patients with RB1 had significantly lower 5-year OS (0% vs. 71.8%, p < 0.001) and lower 5-year EFS (0% vs. 56.0%, p < 0.001) when compared to patients without these alterations. In gene expression analyses, oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and protein secretion were upregulated in patients with TP53 and/or RB1 alterations. Additionally, Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed that high expressions of SLC2A5, KCNAB2, and CD300LF were related to poor OS of non-core-binding factor AML patients (p < 0.001, p = 0.001, and p = 0.021, respectively). This study will contribute to the development of risk-stratified therapy and precision medicine in pediatric AML.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) accounts for 2-3% of childhood leukemias. About 5% of cases present in a blastic phase of CML which clinically and morphologically mimics more common acute leukemias of childhood. We report a case of a 3-year-old male who presented with gradual onset swelling of the abdomen and extremities along with generalized weakness. Examination revealed massive splenomegaly, pallor, and pedal edema. Initial workup showed anemia, thrombocytopenia, and leukocytosis (120,000/uL) with a blast percentage of 35%. Blasts were positive for CD13, CD33, CD117, CD34 and HLA-DR, and stained negative for Myeloperoxidase and Periodic Acid Schiff. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was positive for b3a2/e14a2 junction BCR-ABL1 transcript and negative for RUNX1-RUNX1T1/t(8;21), clinching the diagnosis of CML in myeloid blast crisis. The patient expired within 17 days of diagnosis and initiation of therapy.
Progesterone receptor (PGR) plays diverse roles in reproductive tissues and thus coordinates mammalian fertility. In the ovary, rapid acute induction of PGR is the key determinant of ovulation through transcriptional control of a unique set of genes that culminates in follicle rupture. However, the molecular mechanisms for this specialized PGR function in ovulation is poorly understood. We have assembled a detailed genomic profile of PGR action through combined ATAC-seq, RNA-seq and ChIP-seq analysis in wildtype and isoform-specific PGR null mice. We demonstrate that stimulating ovulation rapidly reprograms chromatin accessibility in two-thirds of sites, correlating with altered gene expression. An ovary-specific PGR action involving interaction with RUNX transcription factors was observed with 70% of PGR-bound regions also bound by RUNX1. These transcriptional complexes direct PGR binding to proximal promoter regions. Additionally, direct PGR binding to the canonical NR3C motif enable chromatin accessibility. Together these PGR actions mediate induction of essential ovulatory genes. Our findings highlight a novel PGR transcriptional mechanism specific to ovulation, providing new targets for infertility treatments or new contraceptives that block ovulation.
Author information:(1)The Second Clinical Medical College of Shanxi Medical University; Taiyuan 030000, Shanxi Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, The Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030000, Shanxi Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology, The Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, Taiyuan 030000, Shanxi Province, China.E-mail: myanp18@163.com.
RNA-binding protein muscleblind-like1 (MBNL1) was recently identified as a central regulator of cardiac wound healing and myofibroblast activation. To identify putative MBNL1 targets, we integrated multiple genome-wide screens with a fibroblast network model. We expanded the model to include putative MBNL1-target interactions and recapitulated published experimental results to validate new signaling modules. We prioritized 14 MBNL1 targets and developed novel fibroblast signaling modules for p38 MAPK, Hippo, Runx1, and Sox9 pathways. We experimentally validated MBNL1 regulation of p38 expression in mouse cardiac fibroblasts. Using the expanded fibroblast model, we predicted a hierarchy of MBNL1 regulated pathways with strong influence on αSMA expression. This study lays a foundation to explore the network mechanisms of MBNL1 signaling central to fibrosis.
DOI: 10.1101/2023.04.12.536513PMCID: PMC10120739PMID: 37090609
The interleukin-6 family of cytokines possesses a diversity of roles with significant redundancy. The roles of these molecules have been relatively well characterized in mammals, with limited attention in other species. Progress has been made in the discovery of homologous molecules in fish. Here we report the characterization of pro-inflammatory properties of recombinant goldfish M17. Recombinant goldfish M17 enhanced phagocytosis, primed production of reactive oxygen intermediates, and was chemotactic to macrophages. Treatment of goldfish macrophages with LPS, heat-killed and live Aeromonas hydrophila resulted in higher M17 mRNA levels. Recombinant M17 (RgM17) induced dose-dependent production of IFNγ and IL-1β1 in goldfish macrophages. Furthermore, treatment of macrophages with rgM17 resulted in upregulation of transcription factors that were important in the differentiation of myeloid progenitors into monocytes/macrophages (Runx1 and GATA2). Our results indicate that goldfish M17 is an essential inflammatory cytokine for proliferation and differentiation of goldfish progenitor cells.
DOI: 10.1002/mco2.262PMCID: PMC10106978PMID: 37077773
Liver fibrosis is caused by chronic liver injury. There are limited treatments for it, and the pathogenesis is unclear. Therefore, there is an urgent need to explore the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis, and to try to identify new potential therapeutic targets. For this study we used the carbon tetrachloride abdominal injection induced liver fibrosis animal model in mice. Primary hepatic stellate cell isolation was performed by a density-gradient separation method, and this was followed by immunofluorescence stain analyses. Signal pathway analysis was performed by dual-luciferase reporter assay and western blotting. Our results showed that RUNX1 was upregulated in cirrhotic liver tissues compared with normal liver tissues. Besides, overexpression of RUNX1 caused more severe liver fibrosis lesions than control group under CCl4 -induced conditions. Moreover, α-SMA expression in the RUNX1 overexpression group was significantly higher than in the control group. Interestingly, we found that RUNX1 could promote the activation of TGF-β/Smads in a dual-luciferase reporter assay. Thus we demonstrated that RUNX1 could be considered as a new regulator of hepatic fibrosis by activating TGF-β/Smads signalling. Based on this, we concluded that RUNX1 may be developed as a new therapeutic target in the treatment of liver fibrosis in the future. In addition, this study also provides a new insight about the aetiology of liver fibrosis.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer caused by aggressive neoplastic proliferations of immature myeloid cells that is fatal if untreated. AML accounts for 1.0% of all new cancer cases in the United States, with a 5-year relative survival rate of 30.5%. Once defined primarily morphologically, advances in next generational sequencing have expanded the role of molecular genetics in categorizing the disease. As such, both the World Health Organization Classification of Haematopoietic Neoplasms and The International Consensus Classification System now define a variety of AML subsets based on mutations in driver genes such as NPM1, CEBPA, TP53, ASXL1, BCOR, EZH2, RUNX1, SF3B1, SRSF2, STAG2, U2AF1, and ZRSR2. This article provides an overview of some of the genetic mutations associated with AML and compares how the new classification systems incorporate molecular genetics into the definition of AML.
TGF-β signaling is a vital regulator for maintaining articular cartilage homeostasis. Runx transcription factors, downstream targets of TGF-β signaling, have been studied in the context of osteoarthritis (OA). Although Runx partner core binding factor β (Cbfβ) is known to play a pivotal role in chondrocyte and osteoblast differentiation, the role of Cbfβ in maintaining articular cartilage integrity remains obscure. This study investigated Cbfβ as a novel anabolic modulator of TGF-β signaling and determined its role in articular cartilage homeostasis. Cbfβ significantly decreased in aged mouse articular cartilage and human OA cartilage. Articular chondrocyte-specific Cbfb-deficient mice (Cbfb△ac/△ac) exhibited early cartilage degeneration at 20 weeks of age and developed OA at 12 months. Cbfb△ac/△ac mice showed enhanced OA progression under the surgically induced OA model in mice. Mechanistically, forced expression of Cbfβ rescued Type II collagen (Col2α1) and Runx1 expression in Cbfβ-deficient chondrocytes. TGF-β1-mediated Col2α1 expression failed despite the p-Smad3 activation under TGF-β1 treatment in Cbfβ-deficient chondrocytes. Cbfβ protected Runx1 from proteasomal degradation through Cbfβ/Runx1 complex formation. These results indicate that Cbfβ is a novel anabolic regulator for cartilage homeostasis, suggesting that Cbfβ could protect OA development by maintaining the integrity of the TGF-β signaling pathway in articular cartilage.
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy among women and the leading cause of cancer deaths, with complicated pathogenesis that is largely unknown. In this study, we identified a novel long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) as a critical driver of breast cancer tumorigenesis. RUNX1 intronic transcript 1 (RUNX1-IT1) was notably overexpressed in human breast cancer tissues, and knockdown of RUNX1-IT1 inhibited breast cancer cell viability and invasion, as well as tumor growth in orthotopic transplantation model. Further, RUNX1-IT1 repressed ferroptosis, a novel iron-dependent form of regulated cell death, via increasing glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression. Specifically, RUNX1-IT1 directly bound to N6-methyladenosine m6A reader IGF2BP1 and promoted the formation of (insulin like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 1) IGF2BP1 liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) biomolecular condensates, resulting in more IGF2BP1 occupation on GPX4 mRNA, increasing GPX4 mRNA stability. Moreover, high RUNX1-IT1 was linked to poor prognosis, and a strong positive correlation between RUNX1-IT1 and GPX4 was observed in clinical breast cancer tissues. Taken together, our data reveal that RUNX1-IT1 promotes breast cancer carcinogenesis through blocking ferroptosis via elevating GPX4, targeting of the previously unappreciated regulatory axis of RUNX1-IT1/IGF2BP1/GPX4 may be a promising treatment for patient with breast cancer.
Author information:(1)The Department of Hematology, Wuhan No.1 Hospital, Wuhan 430022, China.(2)The Department of Hematology, Tongji Hospital of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China.(3)Department of Lymphoma, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Wuhan 430079, China.
The N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification possesses new and essential roles in tumor initiation and progression by regulating mRNA biology. However, the role of aberrant m6A regulation in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) remains unclear. Here, through comprehensive analyses of NPC cohorts from the GEO database and our internal cohort, we identified that VIRMA, an m6A writer, is significantly upregulated in NPC and plays an essential role in tumorigenesis and metastasis of NPC, both in vitro and in vivo. High VIRMA expression served as a prognostic biomarker and was associated with poor outcomes in patients with NPC. Mechanistically, VIRMA mediated the m6A methylation of E2F7 3'-UTR, then IGF2BP2 bound, and maintained the stability of E2F7 mRNA. An integrative high-throughput sequencing approach revealed that E2F7 drives a unique transcriptome distinct from the classical E2F family in NPC, which functioned as an oncogenic transcriptional activator. E2F7 cooperated with CBFB-recruited RUNX1 in a non-canonical manner to transactivate ITGA2, ITGA5, and NTRK1, strengthening Akt signaling-induced tumor-promoting effect.
In patients with t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with recurrent measurable residual disease (MRD) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT), pre-emptive interferon-α therapy and donor lymphocyte infusion are noneffective in 30%-50% of patients. Avapritinib is a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting KIT mutations. We retrospectively report about 20 patients with t(8;21) AML and KIT mutations treated with avapritinib after allo-HSCT with MRD and most failing to respond to immunotherapy. Reduction of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 after 1 month of treatment was ≥1 log in 12 patients (60%), which became negative in 4 patients (20%). In 13 patients who received avapritinib for ≥3 months, the reduction was ≥1 log in all patients, which became negative in 7 patients (53.8%). The median follow-up time was 5.5 (2.0-10.0) months from avapritinib initiation to the last follow-up. Three patients underwent hematologic relapse and survived. Among all 20 patients, RUNX1-RUNX1T1 transcripts turned negative in 9 patients (45%). The efficacy did not differ significantly between D816 and non-D816 KIT mutation groups. The main adverse effect was hematological toxicity, which could generally be tolerated. In summary, avapritinib was effective for MRD treatment in patients with t(8;21) AML with KIT mutations failing to respond to immunotherapy after allo-HSCT.
BACKGROUND: Gramine, also named 3-(N,N-dimethylaminomethyl) indole, is a indole alkaloid. It is mainly extracted from various natural raw plants. Despite being the simplest 3-aminomethylindole, Gramine has broad pharmaceutical and therapeutic effects, such as vasodilatation, antioxidation, mitochondrial bioenergetics-related effects, and angiogenesis via modulation of TGFβ signaling. However, there is little information available about Gramine's role in heart disease, especially pathological cardiac hypertrophy.PURPOSE: To investigate Gramine's effect on pathological cardiac hypertrophy and clarify the mechanisms behind its action.METHODS: In the in vitro experiment, Gramine (25 μM or 50 μM) was used to investigate its role in Angiotensin II-induced primary neonatal rat cardiomyocytes (NRCMs) hypertrophy. In the in vivo experiment, Gramine (50 mg/kg or 100 mg/kg) was administrated to investigate its role in transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery mice. Additionally, we explored the mechanisms underlying these roles through Western blot, Real-time PCR, genome-wide transcriptomic analysis, chromatin immunoprecipitation and molecular docking studies.RESULTS: The in vitro data demonstrated that Gramine treatment obviously improved primary cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by Angiotensin II, but had few effects on the activation of fibroblasts. The in vivo experiments indicated that Gramine significantly mitigated TAC-induced myocardial hypertrophy, interstitial fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, RNA sequencing and further bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that transforming growth factor β (TGFβ)-related signaling pathway was enriched significantly and preferentially in Gramine-treated mice as opposed to vehicle-treated mice during pathological cardiac hypertrophy. Moreover, this cardio-protection of Gramine was found to mainly involved in TGFβ receptor 1 (TGFBR1)- TGFβ activated kinase 1 (TAK1)-p38 MAPK signal cascade. Further exploration showed that Gramine restrained the up-regulation of TGFBR1 by binding to Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1), thereby alleviating pathological cardiac hypertrophy.CONCLUSION: Our findings provided a substantial body of evidence that Gramine possessed a potential druggability in pathological cardiac hypertrophy via suppressing the TGFBR1-TAK1-p38 MAPK signaling axis through interaction with transcription factor Runx1.
PURPOSE: In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), somatic mutations (commonly missense, nonsense and frameshift indels) in RUNX1 are associated with a dismal clinical outcome. Inherited RUNX1 mutations cause familial platelet disorder. As approximately 5-10% of germline RUNX1 mutations are large exonic deletions, we hypothesized that such exonic RUNX1 aberrations may also be acquired during the development of AML.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Sixty well-characterized AML patients were analyzed with Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA, n=60), micro-array (n=11) and/or whole genome sequencing (WGS, n=8).RESULTS: In total, 25 (42% of the cohort) RUNX1-aberrant patients (defined by the presence of classical mutations and/or exonic deletions) were identified. Sixteen patients (27%) carried only exonic deletions, 5 (8%) carried classical mutations and 4 (7%) carried both exonic deletions and mutations. No significant difference was observed between patients with classical RUNX1 mutations and RUNX1 exonic deletions in median overall survival (OS, 53.1 vs 38.8 months respectively, p=0.63). When applying the European Leukemia Net (ELN) classification including the RUNX1-aberrant group, 20% of the patients initially stratified as intermediate-risk (5% of the whole cohort) were re-assigned to the high-risk group, which improved the performance of ELN classification regarding OS between intermediate and high-risk group (18.9 vs 9.6 months, p=0.09).CONCLUSIONS: Somatic RUNX1 exonic deletions constitute a novel recurrent aberration in AML. Our findings have important clinical implications regarding AML classification, risk-stratification and treatment decision. Moreover, they argue in favor of further investigating such genomic aberrations not only in RUNX1 but also in other genes implicated in cancer biology and management.
Chromosomal rearrangements of the human KMT2A/MLL gene are associated with de novo as well as therapy-induced infant, pediatric, and adult acute leukemias. Here, we present the data obtained from 3401 acute leukemia patients that have been analyzed between 2003 and 2022. Genomic breakpoints within the KMT2A gene and the involved translocation partner genes (TPGs) and KMT2A-partial tandem duplications (PTDs) were determined. Including the published data from the literature, a total of 107 in-frame KMT2A gene fusions have been identified so far. Further 16 rearrangements were out-of-frame fusions, 18 patients had no partner gene fused to 5'-KMT2A, two patients had a 5'-KMT2A deletion, and one ETV6::RUNX1 patient had an KMT2A insertion at the breakpoint. The seven most frequent TPGs and PTDs account for more than 90% of all recombinations of the KMT2A, 37 occur recurrently and 63 were identified so far only once. This study provides a comprehensive analysis of the KMT2A recombinome in acute leukemia patients. Besides the scientific gain of information, genomic breakpoint sequences of these patients were used to monitor minimal residual disease (MRD). Thus, this work may be directly translated from the bench to the bedside of patients and meet the clinical needs to improve patient survival.
Oncogenic fusions formed through chromosomal rearrangements are hallmarks of childhood cancer that define cancer subtype, predict outcome, persist through treatment, and can be ideal therapeutic targets. However, mechanistic understanding of the etiology of oncogenic fusions remains elusive. Here we report a comprehensive detection of 272 oncogenic fusion gene pairs by using tumor transcriptome sequencing data from 5190 childhood cancer patients. We identify diverse factors, including translation frame, protein domain, splicing, and gene length, that shape the formation of oncogenic fusions. Our mathematical modeling reveals a strong link between differential selection pressure and clinical outcome in CBFB-MYH11. We discover 4 oncogenic fusions, including RUNX1-RUNX1T1, TCF3-PBX1, CBFA2T3-GLIS2, and KMT2A-AFDN, with promoter-hijacking-like features that may offer alternative strategies for therapeutic targeting. We uncover extensive alternative splicing in oncogenic fusions including KMT2A-MLLT3, KMT2A-MLLT10, C11orf95-RELA, NUP98-NSD1, KMT2A-AFDN and ETV6-RUNX1. We discover neo splice sites in 18 oncogenic fusion gene pairs and demonstrate that such splice sites confer therapeutic vulnerability for etiology-based genome editing. Our study reveals general principles on the etiology of oncogenic fusions in childhood cancer and suggests profound clinical implications including etiology-based risk stratification and genome-editing-based therapeutics.
We sought to evaluate the efficacy of the purine analogue cladribine in 79 patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) using data from the 'German Registry on Disorders of Eosinophils and Mast Cells (GREM)'. The overall response rate according to modified Valent criteria (46 evaluable patients) for first- (1L) and second-line (2L) cladribine treatment was 41% (12/29) and 35% (6/17, P = 0.690), respectively, and the median overall survival (OS, all patients evaluable) was 1.9 years (n = 48) and 1.2 years (n = 31; P = 0.311). Univariate and multivariable analyses of baseline and on-treatment parameters identified diagnosis of mast cell leukemia (hazard ratio [HR] 3.5, 95% confidence interval [CI, 1.3-9.1], P = 0.012), eosinophilia ≥ 1.5 × 109/L (HR 2.9 [CI 1.4-6.2], P = 0.006) and < 3 cycles of cladribine (HR 0.4 [CI 0.2-0.8], P = 0.008) as independent adverse prognostic parameters for OS. There was no impact of other laboratory (anemia, thrombocytopenia, serum tryptase) or genetic markers (mutations in SRSF2, ASXL1 or RUNX1) on OS. In consequence, none of the recently established prognostic scoring systems (MARS, IPSM, MAPS or GPSM) was predictive for OS. Modified Valent criteria were superior to a single factor-based response assessment (HR 2.9 [CI 1.3-6.6], P = 0.026). In conclusion, cladribine is effective in 1L and 2L treatment of AdvSM. Mast cell leukemia, eosinophilia, application of < 3 cycles and a lack of response are adverse prognostic markers.
The pathogenesis of acute leukemia is still complex and vague. Most types of acute leukemia are related to somatic gene mutations, and familial incidence is rare. Here we report a case of familial leukemia. The proband presented to our hospital with vaginal bleeding and disseminated intravascular coagulation at the age of 42 and was diagnosed with acute promyelocytic leukemia with typical PML-RARα fusion gene caused by t(15;17)(q24;q21) translocation. By taking the history, we found that the patient's second daughter had been diagnosed with B-cell acute leukemia with ETV6-RUNX1 fusion gene at age 6. Then we performed whole exome sequencing in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from these two patients at remission status and identified 8 shared germline gene mutations. Using functional annotation and Sanger sequencing validation, we finally focused on a single nucleotide variant in RecQ like helicase (RECQL), rs146924988, which was negative in the proband's healthy eldest daughter. This gene variant potentially led to a relative lack of RECQL protein, disordered DNA repair and chromatin rearrangement, which may mediate the occurrence of fusion genes, as driving factors for leukemia. This study identified a novel possible leukemia-related germline gene variant and provided a new understanding for the screening and pathogenesis of hereditary predisposition syndromes.
DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2691216/v1PMCID: PMC10055643PMID: 36993719
BACKGROUND: DNA methylation is a form of epigenetic modification that regulates gene expression. However, there are limited data on the comprehensive analysis of DNA methylation regulated gene mutations (DMRGM) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) mainly referring to DNA methyltransferase 3α (DNMT3A), isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1), isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2), and Tet methylcytidine dioxygenase 2 (TET2).RESULTS: A retrospective study of the clinical characteristics and gene mutations in 843 newly diagnosed non-M3 AML patients was conducted between January 2016 and August 2019. 29.7% (250/843) of patients presented with DMRGM. It was characterized by older age, higher white blood cell count, and higher platelet count (P < 0.05). DMRGM frequently coexisted with FLT3-ITD, NPM1, FLT3-TKD, and RUNX1 mutations (P < 0.05). The CR/CRi rate was only 60.3% in DMRGM patients, significantly lower than in non-DMRGM patients (71.0%, P = 0.014). In addition to being associated with poor overall survival (OS), DMRGM was also an independent risk factor for relapse-free survival (RFS) (HR: 1.467, 95% CI: 1.030-2.090, P = 0.034). Furthermore, OS worsened with an increasing burden of DMRGM. Patients with DMRGM may be benefit from hypomethylating drugs, and the unfavorable prognosis of DMRGM can be overcome by hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). For external validation, the BeatAML database was downloaded, and a significant association between DMRGM and OS was confirmed (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Our study provides an overview of DMRGM in AML patients, which was identified as a risk factor for poor prognosis.
BACKGROUND: Human accelerated regions (HARs) are short conserved genomic sequences that have acquired significantly more nucleotide substitutions than expected in the human lineage after divergence from chimpanzees. The fast evolution of HARs may reflect their roles in the origin of human-specific traits. A recent study has reported positively-selected single nucleotide variants (SNVs) within brain-exclusive human accelerated enhancers (BE-HAEs) hs1210 (forebrain), hs563 (hindbrain) and hs304 (midbrain/forebrain). By including data from archaic hominins, these SNVs were shown to be Homo sapiens-specific, residing within transcriptional factors binding sites (TFBSs) for SOX2 (hs1210), RUNX1/3 (hs563), and FOS/JUND (hs304). Although these findings suggest that the predicted modifications in TFBSs may have some role in present-day brain structure, work is required to verify the extent to which these changes translate into functional variation.RESULTS: To start to fill this gap, we investigate the SOX2 SNV, with both forebrain expression and strong signal of positive selection in humans. We demonstrate that the HMG box of SOX2 binds in vitro with Homo sapiens-specific derived A-allele and ancestral T-allele carrying DNA sites in BE-HAE hs1210. Molecular docking and simulation analysis indicated highly favourable binding of HMG box with derived A-allele containing DNA site when compared to site carrying ancestral T-allele.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that adoptive changes in TF affinity within BE-HAE hs1210 and other HAR enhancers in the evolutionary history of Homo sapiens might. have brought about changes in gene expression patterns and have functional consequences on forebrain formation and evolution.METHODS: The present study employ electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations approaches.
The development of therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MN) is a rare complication that can occur in myeloma patients treated primarily with novel therapies. To better understand t-MNs in this context, we reviewed 66 such patients and compared them with a control group of patients who developed t-MN after cytotoxic therapies for other malignancies. The study group included 50 men and 16 women, with a median age of 68 years (range, 48-86 years). Therapies included proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory agents, and high-dose melphalan-based autologous stem cell transplantation (HDM-ASCT) in 64 (97%), 65 (98.5%), and 64 (97%) patients, respectively; 29 (43.9%) patients were exposed to other cytotoxic drugs besides HDM. The latency interval from therapy to t-MN was 4.9 years (range, 0.6-21.9 years). Patients who received HDM-ASCT in addition to other cytotoxic therapies had a longer latency period to t-MN compared with patients who only received HDM-ASCT (6.1 vs 4.7 years, P = .009). Notably, 11 patients developed t-MN within 2 years. Therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome was the most common type of neoplasm (n = 60), followed by therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (n = 4) and myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasm (n = 2). The most common cytogenetic aberrations included complex karyotypes (48.5%), del7q/-7 (43.9%), and/or del5q/-5 (40.9%). The most frequent molecular alteration was TP53 mutation, in 43 (67.2%) patients and the sole mutation in 20 patients. Other mutations included DNMT3A, 26.6%; TET2, 14.1%; RUNX1, 10.9%; ASXL1, 7.8%; and U2AF1, 7.8%. Other mutations in less than 5% of cases included SRSF2, EZH2, STAG2, NRAS, SETBP, SF3B1, SF3A1, and ASXL2. After a median follow-up of 15.3 months, 18 patients were alive and 48 died. The median overall survival after the diagnosis of t-MN in the study group was 18.4 months. Although the overall features are comparable to the control group, the short interval to t-MN (<2 years) underscores the unique vulnerable status of myeloma patients.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune polyarthritis in which synovial fibroblasts (SFs) play a major role in cartilage and bone destruction through tumor-like proliferation, migration, and invasion. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have emerged as vital regulators for tumor progression. However, the regulatory role, clinical significance, and underlying mechanisms of circRNAs in RASF tumor-like growth and metastasis remain largely unknown. Differentially expressed circRNAs in synovium samples from patients with RA and patients with joint trauma were identified via RNA sequencing. Subsequently, in vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to investigate the functional roles of circCDKN2B-AS_006 in RASF proliferation, migration, and invasion. CircCDKN2B-AS_006 was upregulated in synovium samples from patients with RA and promoted the tumor-like proliferation, migration, and invasion of RASFs. Mechanistically, circCDKN2B-AS_006 was shown to regulate the expression of runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) by sponging miR-1258, influencing the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway, and promoting the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in RASFs. Moreover, in the collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) mouse model, intra-articular injection of lentivirus-shcircCDKN2B-AS_006 was capable of alleviating the severity of arthritis and inhibiting the aggressive behaviors of SFs. Furthermore, the correlation analysis results revealed that the circCDKN2B-AS_006/miR-1258/RUNX1 axis in the synovium was correlated with the clinical indicators of RA patients. CircCDKN2B-AS_006 promoted the proliferation, migration, and invasion of RASFs by modulating the miR-1258/RUNX1 axis.
Myelodysplastic neoplasm (MDS) represents a heterogeneous group of myeloid disorders that originate from the hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells that lead to the development of clonal hematopoiesis. MDS was characterized by an increased risk of transformation into acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In recent years, with the aid of next-generation sequencing (NGS), an increasing number of molecular aberrations were discovered, such as recurrent mutations in FLT3, NPM1, DNMT3A, TP53, NRAS, and RUNX1 genes. During MDS progression to leukemia, the order of gene mutation acquisition is not random and is important when considering the prognostic impact. Moreover, the co-occurrence of certain gene mutations is not random; some of the combinations of gene mutations seem to have a high frequency (ASXL1 and U2AF1), while the co-occurrence of mutations in splicing factor genes is rarely observed. Recent progress in the understanding of molecular events has led to MDS transformation into AML and unraveling the genetic signature has paved the way for developing novel targeted and personalized treatments. This article reviews the genetic abnormalities that increase the risk of MDS transformation to AML, and the impact of genetic changes on evolution. Selected therapies for MDS and MDS progression to AML are also discussed.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous and complex disease concerning molecular aberrations and prognosis. RUNX1/RUNX1T1 is a fusion oncogene that results from the chromosomal translocation t(8;21) and plays a crucial role in AML. However, its impact on the transcriptomic profile of different age groups of AML patients is not completely understood. Here, we investigated the deregulated gene expression (DEG) profiles in adult and pediatric RUNX1/RUNX1T1-positive AML patients, and compared their functions and regulatory networks. We retrospectively analyzed gene expression data from two independent Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets (GSE37642 and GSE75461) and computed their differentially expressed genes and upstream regulators, using limma, GEO2Enrichr, and X2K. For validation purposes, we used the TCGA-LAML (adult) and TARGET-AML (pediatric) patient cohorts. We also analyzed the protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks, as well as those composed of transcription factors (TF), intermediate proteins, and kinases foreseen to regulate the top deregulated genes in each group. Gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways enrichment analyses were further performed for the DEGs in each dataset. We found that the top upregulated genes in (both adult and pediatric) RUNX1/RUNX1T1-positive AML patients are enriched in extracellular matrix organization, the cell projection membrane, filopodium membrane, and supramolecular fiber. Our data corroborate that RUNX1/RUNX1T1 reprograms a large transcriptional network to establish and maintain leukemia via intricate PPI interactions and kinase-driven phosphorylation events.
Lactobacillus reuteri is a probiotic with bacteriostatic effects, which can effectively inhibit the activity of pathogens. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the inhibition of pathogens by L. reuteri in intestinal cells remains unclear. Using the porcine intestinal cell line IPEC-J2 as a model, we combined RNA-seq and ATAC-seq methods to delineate the porcine genome-wide changes in biological processes and chromatin accessibility in IPEC-J2 cells stimulated by Salmonella enterica BNCC186354, as well as L. reuteri ATCC 53608. Overall, we found that many porcine transcripts were altered after S. enterica BNCC186354 treatment, while L. reuteri ATCC 53608 treatment partially restored this alteration, such as salmonella infection and PI3K/AKT and MAPK pathways. Combined analysis of these two datasets revealed that 26 genes with similar trends overlapped between gene expression and chromatin accessibility. In addition, we identified potential host functional transcription factors (TFs), such as GATA1, TAL1, TBP, RUNX1, Gmeb1, Gfi1b, RARA, and RXRG, in IPEC-J2 cells that might play a critical role and are targeted by L. reuteri ATCC 53608. Moreover, we verified that PI3K/AKT, MAPK, and apoptosis pathways are potentially regulated by S. enterica BNCC186354 but restored by L. reuteri ATCC 53608. The PI3K/AKT pathway was activated by L. reuteri ATCC 53608, thereby potentially inhibiting S. enterica BNCC186354 infection. In conclusion, our data provide new insights into the expression pattern of functional genes and the epigenetic alterations in IPEC-J2 cells underlying the bacteriostatic action of L. reuteri ATCC 53608.
Author information:(1)Department of Stomatology, Taizhou First People's Hospital. Taizhou 318020, Zhejiang Province, China. E-mail: weijunshui@163.com.
Transcription factors bind promoter or regulatory sequences of a gene to regulate its rate of transcription. However, they are also detected in anucleated platelets. The transcription factors RUNX1, GATA1, STAT3, NFκB, and PPAR have been widely reported to play key roles in the pathophysiology of platelet hyper-reactivity, thrombosis, and atherosclerosis. These non-transcriptional activities are independent of gene transcription or protein synthesis but their underlying mechanisms of action remain poorly defined. Genetic and acquired defects in these transcription factors are associated with the production of platelet microvesicles that are known to initiate and propagate coagulation and to promote thrombosis. In this review, we summarize recent developments in the study of transcription factors in platelet generation, reactivity, and production of microvesicles, with a focus on non-transcriptional activities of selected transcription factors.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated smooth muscle tumors (EBV-SMTs) are rare smooth muscle neoplasms exclusively associated with immunosuppression, such as in patients with HIV/AIDS, posttransplant, and congenital immunodeficiency. However, the genomic landscape of EBV-SMTs is poorly understood. Leiomyosarcomas harbor genomic instability and multiple recurrent DNA copy number alterations, whereas leiomyomas lack such changes. Thus, this study aimed to fill this knowledge gap by characterizing copy number alterations in EBV-SMTs and correlating this information with clinicopathologic characteristics. Our study investigated and compared the pathologic characteristics and copy number profiles of 9 EBV-SMTs (from 7 patients with AIDS after transplantation), 6 leiomyomas, and 7 leiomyosarcomas, using chromosomal microarray platforms. Our results showed a lower copy number alteration burden in EBV-SMTs and leiomyoma than in leiomyosarcoma. This contrast in the molecular profile between EBV-SMTs and leiomyosarcoma is concordant with the different clinical behaviors and pathologic characteristics exhibited by these tumors. Despite having an overall copy number alteration profile closer to leiomyoma, recurrent copy number gain of oncogenes, such as RUNX1, CCND2, and ETS2, was found in EBV-SMTs. Epigenetic alterations may play an important role in tumorigenesis as recurrent copy number gains were found in histone deacetylases. A gene enrichment analysis also demonstrated enrichment of genes involved in the host response to viral infection, suggesting that the tumor immune microenvironment may play an important role in EBV-SMT tumorigenesis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate how comorbidities and molecular landscape relate to outcome in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) aged 60 years or older who received intensive induction therapy. In 91 patients, 323 mutations were identified in 77 genes by next-generation sequencing, with a median of four mutations per patient, with NPM1, FLT3, TET2, and DNMT3A being the most frequently mutated genes. A multistate model identified FLT3, IDH2, RUNX1, and TET2 mutations as associated with a higher likelihood of achieving complete remission while STAG2 mutations were associated with primary refractory disease, and DNMT3A, FLT3, IDH2, and TP53 mutations with mortality after relapse. Ferrara unfitness criteria and performance status were the best predictors of short-term outcome (area under the curve = 82 for 2-month survival for both parameters), whereas genomic classifications better predicted long-term outcome, with the Patel risk stratification performing the best over the 5-year follow-up period (C-index = 0.63 for event-free and overall survival). We show that most genomic prognostic classifications, mainly used in younger patients, are useful for classifying older patients, but to a lesser extent, because of different mutational profiles. Specific prognostic classifications, incorporating performance status, comorbidities, and cytogenetic/molecular data, should be specifically designed for patients over 60 years.
We retrospectively explored the prognostic impact of DAT mutations at diagnosis in 122 RUNX1mut AML patients. RUNX1 missense mutation was dominant in the RUNT domain, and frameshift mutation was dominant in the TAD domain. DAT mutations occurred in 38.5% of RUNX1mut AML. After propensity score matching, DATpos patients had worse two-year relapse-free survival (RFS) than DATneg patients (p = .041). Moreover, RUNX1high (VAF ≥ 37.6%) patients showed poorer two-year overall survival (OS) and RFS than RUNX1low (VAF < 37.6%) patients (OS, p = .033; RFS, p = .027), especially in the RUNX1highDATpos group. Additionally, multivariate analysis confirmed that DAT mutations at diagnosis were an independent adverse factor for RFS. There were no significant differences in two-year OS and RFS between DATpos and DATneg patients or between RUNX1high and RUNX1low patients who undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Collectively, DAT mutations at diagnosis were adverse factors for RFS, and allo-HSCT could likely improve the poor outcomes of these patients.
Deletion of ABL1 was detected in a cohort of hematologic malignancies carrying AML1-ETO and NUP98 fusion proteins. Abl1-/- murine hematopoietic cells transduced with AML1-ETO and NUP98-PMX1 gained proliferation advantage when compared to Abl1 + /+ counterparts. Conversely, overexpression and pharmacological stimulation of ABL1 kinase resulted in reduced proliferation. To pinpoint mechanisms facilitating the transformation of ABL1-deficient cells, Abl1 was knocked down in 32Dcl3-Abl1ko cells by CRISPR/Cas9 followed by the challenge of growth factor withdrawal. 32Dcl3-Abl1ko cells but not 32Dcl3-Abl1wt cells generated growth factor-independent clones. RNA-seq implicated PI3K signaling as one of the dominant mechanisms contributing to growth factor independence in 32Dcl3-Abl1ko cells. PI3K inhibitor buparlisib exerted selective activity against Lin-cKit+ NUP98-PMX1;Abl1-/- cells when compared to the Abl1 + /+ counterparts. Since the role of ABL1 in DNA damage response (DDR) is well established, we also tested the inhibitors of ATM (ATMi), ATR (ATRi) and DNA-PKcs (DNA-PKi). AML1-ETO;Abl1-/- and NUP98-PMX1;Abl1-/- cells were hypersensitive to DNA-PKi and ATRi, respectively, when compared to Abl1 + /+ counterparts. Moreover, ABL1 kinase inhibitor enhanced the sensitivity to PI3K, DNA-PKcs and ATR inhibitors. In conclusion, we showed that ABL1 kinase plays a tumor suppressor role in hematological malignancies induced by AML1-ETO and NUP98-PMX1 and modulates the response to PI3K and/or DDR inhibitors.
The mesenchymal (MES) subtype of glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly aggressive, malignant and proliferative cancer that is resistant to chemotherapy. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) was shown to support MES GBM, however, its underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here, we identified USP10 as a deubiquitinating enzyme that regulates RUNX1 stabilization and is mainly expressed in MES GBM. Overexpression of USP10 upregulated RUNX1 and induced proneural-to-mesenchymal transition (PMT), thus maintaining MES properties in GBM. Conversely, USP10 knockdown inhibited RUNX1 and resulted in the loss of MES properties. USP10 was shown to interact with RUNX1, with RUNX1 being stabilized upon deubiquitylation. Moreover, we found that USP10 inhibitor Spautin-1 induced RUNX1 degradation and inhibited MES properties in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, USP10 was strongly correlated with RUNX1 expression in samples of different subtypes of human GBM and had prognostic value for GBM patients. We identified USP10 as a key deubiquitinase for RUNX1 protein stabilization. USP10 maintains MES properties of GBM, and promotes PMT of GBM cells. Our study indicates that the USP10/RUNX1 axis may be a potential target for novel GBM treatments.
Author information:(1)Vaccine Research Institute, Université Paris-Est Créteil, Faculté de Médecine, INSERM U955, Team 16, Créteil, France.(2)Département Épidémiologie Biostatistiques Et Recherche Clinique, AP-HP, Hôpital Bichat, INSERM, Centre d'Investigation Clinique-Epidémiologie Clinique 1425, 75018, Paris, France.(3)UMR 1137, Université de Paris, INSERM, IAME, 75018, Paris, France.(4)APHP- Hôpital Bichat - Médecine Intensive et Réanimation des Maladies Infectieuses, Paris, France.(5)Department of Public Health, Univ. Bordeaux, Inserm Bordeaux Population Health Research Centre, Inria SISTM, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.(6)Service of Immunology and Allergy, Department of Medicine, Lausanne University Hospital and University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(7)AP-HP, Hôpital Bichat, Service de Maladies Infectieuses Et Tropicales, 75018, Paris, France.(8)Swiss Vaccine Research Institute, Lausanne University Hospital, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.(9)CHU de Bordeaux, Pôle de Santé Publique, Service d'Information Médicale, Bordeaux, France.(10)Vaccine Research Institute, Université Paris-Est Créteil, Faculté de Médecine, INSERM U955, Team 16, Créteil, France. yves.levy@aphp.fr.(11)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Service Immunologie Clinique, Groupe Henri-Mondor Albert-Chenevier, Créteil, France. yves.levy@aphp.fr.
The European LeukaemiaNet (ELN) measurable residual disease (MRD) working group have published consensus guidelines to standardise molecular genetic MRD testing of the t(8;21)(q22;q22.1) RUNX1::RUNX1T1, inv(16)(p13.1q22) CBFB::MYH11, t(15;17)(q24.1;q21.2) PML::RARA and NPM1 type A markers. A study featuring 29 international laboratories was performed to assess interlaboratory variation of testing, and the subsequent interpretation of results, both crucial to patient safety. The majority of participants in this study were able to detect, accurately quantify and interpret MRD testing results correctly, with a level of proficiency expected from a clinical trial or standard of care setting. However, a number of testing and interpretive errors were identified that in a patient setting would have led to misclassification of patient outcomes and inappropriate treatment pathways being followed. Of note, a high proportion of participants reported false positive results in the NPM1 marker negative sample. False positive results may have consequences clinically, committing patients to unneeded additional chemotherapy and/or transplant with the attendant risk of morbidity and mortality, and therefore highlights the need for ongoing external quality assessment (EQA)/proficiency testing (PT) in this area. Most errors identified in the study were related to the interpretation of results. It was noted that the ELN guidance lacks clarity for certain clinical scenarios and highlights the requirement for urgent revision of the guidelines to elucidate these issues, and related educational efforts around the revisions to ensure effective dissemination.
Bone morphogenetic protein 15 (BMP15) is specifically expressed in oocytes in pigs at all stages from early stages to ovulation and has an important role in oocyte maturation. However, there are few reports on the molecular mechanisms by which BMP15 affects oocyte maturation. In this study, we identified the core promoter region of BMP15 using a dual luciferase activity assay and successfully predicted the DNA binding motif of the transcription factor RUNX1. The effect of BMP15 and RUNX1 on oocyte maturation was examined using the first polar body extrusion rate, a reactive oxygen species (ROS) assay and total glutathione (GSH) content at three time points of 12, 24 and 48 h of in vitro culture of porcine isolated oocytes. Subsequently, the effect of the transcription factor RUNX1 on the TGF-β signaling pathway (BMPR1B and ALK5) was further verified using RT-qPCR and Western blotting. We found that the overexpression of BMP15 significantly increased the first polar body extrusion rate (P < 0.01) and total glutathione content of oocytes cultured in vitro for 24 h and decreased reactive oxygen levels (P < 0.01), whereas interference with BMP15 decreased the first polar body extrusion rate (P < 0.01), increased reactive oxygen levels in oocytes cultured in vitro for 24 h (P < 0.01), and decreased glutathione content (P < 0.01). The dual luciferase activity assay and online software prediction showed that RUNX1 is a potential transcription factor binding to the core promoter region (-1203/-1423 bp) of BMP15. Overexpression of RUNX1 significantly increased the expression of BMP15 and oocyte maturation rate, while inhibition of RUNX1 decreased the expression of BMP15 and the oocyte maturation rate. Moreover, the expression of BMPR1B and ALK5 in the TGF-β signaling pathway increased significantly after overexpression of RUNX1, whereas their expression decreased after inhibition of RUNX1. Overall, our results suggest that the transcription factor RUNX1 positively regulates the expression of BMP15 and influences oocyte maturation through the TGF-β signaling pathway. This study provides a theoretical basis for further complementing the BMP15/TGF-β signaling pathway to regulate mammalian oocyte maturation.
8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome is a rare hematological malignancy caused by the translocation of FGFR1. Patients present with a myeloproliferative neoplasm that frequently transforms into acute myeloid leukemia or T-lymphoblastic lymphoma/leukemia. Here, we report a molecular study of a patient with 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome who developed acute B-lymphoblastic leukemia and then transformed to mixed-phenotype acute leukemia. A 67-year-old woman was diagnosed with a myeloproliferative neoplasm with t(6;8)(q27;p12) and was monitored for polycythemia vera. Four years later, she developed acute B-lymphoblastic leukemia with an additional chromosomal abnormality of - 7. Despite two induction regimens, she failed to achieve complete remission, and leukemia transformed into mixed-phenotype leukemia. Targeted sequencing of serial bone marrow samples identified the RUNX1 L144R mutation upon transformation to B-cell leukemia. After those two induction regimens, some RUNX1 mutation-positive leukemic cells obtained the JAK2 V617F mutation, which was associated with the emergence of myeloid markers, including myeloperoxidase.
BACKGROUND: Ischemic stroke (IS) is the primary cause of mortality and disability worldwide. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been proposed as crucial regulators in IS. This study focused on the role of circPDS5B in IS and its underlying mechanism.METHOD: Transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) mice and glucose deprivation/reoxygenation (OGD/R)-exposed human brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs) were used as IS models. Expression levels of circPDS5B, heterogenous nuclear ribonucleoprotein L (hnRNPL), runt-related transcription factor-1 (Runx1), and Zinc finger protein 24 (ZNF24) were quantified by qRT-PCR. MTT, wound healing, transwell and tube formation assays were employed to evaluate the cell proliferation, migration, and angiogenesis, respectively. Moreover, RNA pull-down, and RIP assay were performed to investigate the interaction among circPDS5B, hnRNPL and vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A).RESULTS: circPDS5B was significantly up-regulated in IS patients and tMCAO mice. Deficiency of circPDS5B relieved brain infarction and neuronal injury of tMCAO mice. OGD/R-induced apoptosis, inhibition in viability, migration, and angiogenesis in BMECs were dramatically abrogated by circPDS5B knockdown. Mechanistically, circPDS5B stabilized Runx1 and ZNF24 via recruiting hnRNPL, thereby suppressing the transcription and expression of VEGFA. hnRNPL silencing strengthened circPDS5B knockdown-mediated beneficial effect on IS.CONCLUSION: Altogether, our study showed that high expression of circPDS5B exacerbated IS through recruitment of hnRNPL to stabilize Runx1/ZNF24 and subsequently inactivate VEGFA. Our findings suggest circPDS5B may be a novel therapeutic target for IS.
Although the activator protein-1 (AP-1) factor Batf is required for Th17 cell development, its mechanisms of action to underpin the Th17 program are incompletely understood. Here, we find that Batf ensures Th17 cell identity in part by restricting alternative gene programs through its actions to restrain IL-2 expression and IL-2-induced Stat5 activation. This, in turn, limits Stat5-dependent recruitment of Ets1-Runx1 factors to Th1- and Treg-cell-specific gene loci. Thus, in addition to pioneering regulatory elements in Th17-specific loci, Batf acts indirectly to inhibit the assembly of a Stat5-Ets1-Runx1 complex that enhances the transcription of Th1- and Treg-cell-specific genes. These findings unveil an important role for Stat5-Ets1-Runx1 interactions in transcriptional networks that define alternate T cell fates and indicate that Batf plays an indispensable role in both inducing and maintaining the Th17 program through its actions to regulate the competing actions of Stat5-assembled enhanceosomes that promote Th1- and Treg-cell developmental programs.
BACKGROUND: Myeloid sarcoma (MS) is a rare, extramedullary tumor consisting of myeloid blasts. Little is known about the genetic background of MS and the prognostic value of genetic abnormalities in MS. In particular, the broad variety of gene fusions that occur in MS is marginally covered by traditional testing methods due to lack of fresh tumor specimens.METHODS: Here, we analyzed the clinical and genetic features of 61 MS cases. We performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) or fresh samples to analyze fusion genes in 26 cases. In addition, we performed genetic abnormalities-based risk stratification using fusion genes and gene mutations.RESULTS: A total of 305 fusion genes were identified in 22 cases, including the following five recurrent fusion genes: RUNX1-RUNX1T1, CBFβ-MYH11, ETV6-MECOM, FUS-ERG, and PICALM-MLLT10. The prognosis in the adverse-risk group was significantly worse than that in the favorable/intermediate-risk group (median survival: 12 months vs. not reached; p = 0.0004).CONCLUSION: These results indicated the efficacy of RNA-seq using FFPE-derived RNA as a clinical routine for detecting fusion genes, which can be used as markers for risk stratification in MS.
Burn wounds require intervention to ensure timely progression to reduce morbidity and mortality. The migrative and proliferative capabilities of keratinocytes are impaired in wounds. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) can degrade the extracellular matrix (ECM), allowing epithelial cells to migrate. As reported, osteopontin can regulate cell migration, cell adhesion, and ECM invasion in endothelial and epithelial cells, and its expression is significantly increased in chronic wounds. Therefore, this study investigates the biological functions of osteopontin and its related mechanisms involved in burn wounds. We established cellular and animal models of burn injury. Levels of osteopontin, RUNX1, MMPs, collagen I, CK19, PCNA and pathway-associated proteins were measured by RT-qPCR, western blotting and immunofluorescence staining. Cell viability and migration were examined by CCK-8 and wound scratch assays. Histological changes were analyzed by hematoxylin and eosin staining and Masson's trichrome staining. For in vitro analysis, osteopontin silencing facilitated the growth and migration of HaCaT cells and promoted ECM degradation in HaCaT cells. Mechanistically, RUNX1 bound to osteopontin promoter, and RUNX1 upregulation attenuated the promoting efficacy of osteopontin silencing on cell growth and migration and ECM degradation. Additionally, RUNX1-activated osteopontin inactivated the MAPK signaling pathway. For in vivo analysis, osteopontin depletion facilitated burn wound healing by promoting re-epithelialization and ECM degradation. In conclusion, RUNX1 activates the osteopontin expression at the transcriptional level and osteopontin depletion facilitates the recovery of burn wounds by promoting the migration of keratinocytes and re-epithelization and ECM degradation by activating the MAPK pathway.
Somatic polyploidization, an adaptation by which cells increase their DNA content to support growth, is observed in many cell types, including cardiomyocytes. Although polyploidization is believed to be beneficial, progression to a polyploid state is often accompanied by loss of proliferative capacity. Recent work suggests that genetics heavily influence cardiomyocyte ploidy. However, the developmental course by which cardiomyocytes reach their final ploidy state has only been investigated in select backgrounds. Here, we assessed cardiomyocyte number, cell cycle activity, and ploidy dynamics across two divergent mouse strains: C57BL/6J and A/J. Both strains are born and reach adulthood with comparable numbers of cardiomyocytes; however, the end composition of ploidy classes and developmental progression to reach the final state differ substantially. We expand on previous findings that identified Tnni3k as a mediator of cardiomyocyte ploidy and uncover a role for Runx1 in ploidy dynamics and cardiomyocyte cell division, in both developmental and injury contexts. These data provide novel insights into the developmental path to cardiomyocyte polyploidization and challenge the paradigm that hypertrophy is the sole mechanism for growth in the postnatal heart.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21) is a rare subtype of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (BCP-ALL). It is unknown how iAMP21 contributes to leukaemia. The currently known commonly amplified region is 5.1 Mb.METHODS: We aimed to narrow down the common region of amplification by using high resolution techniques. Array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) was used to determine copy number aberrations, Affymetrix U133 Plus2 expression arrays were used to determine gene expression. Genome-wide expression correlations were evaluated using Globaltest.RESULTS: We narrowed down the common region of amplification by combining copy number data from 12 iAMP21 cases with 52 cases from literature. The combined common region of amplification was 1.57 Mb, located from 36.07 to 37.64 Mb (GRCh38). This region is located telomeric from, but not including, RUNX1, which is the locus commonly used to diagnose iAMP21. This narrow region, which falls inside the Down Syndrome critical region, includes 13 genes of which the expression of eight genes was significantly upregulated compared with 143 non-iAMP21 B-other cases. Among these, transcriptional repressor RIPPLY3 (also known as DSCR6) was the highest overexpressed gene (fold change = 4.2, FDR < 0.001) and most strongly correlated (R = 0.58) with iAMP21-related genome-wide expression changes.DISCUSSION: The more precise definition of the common region of amplification could be beneficial in the diagnosis of iAMP21 based on copy number analysis from DNA sequencing or arrays as well as stimulate functional research into the role of the included genes in iAMP21 biology.
BACKGROUND: Sarcopenia, the age-associated decline in skeletal muscle mass and strength, has long been considered a disease of muscle only, but accumulating evidence suggests that sarcopenia could originate from the neural components controlling muscles. To identify early molecular changes in nerves that may drive sarcopenia initiation, we performed a longitudinal transcriptomic analysis of the sciatic nerve, which governs lower limb muscles, in aging mice.METHODS: Sciatic nerve and gastrocnemius muscle were obtained from female C57BL/6JN mice aged 5, 18, 21 and 24 months old (n = 6 per age group). Sciatic nerve RNA was extracted and underwent RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were validated using quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). Functional enrichment analysis of clusters of genes associated with patterns of gene expression across age groups (adjusted P-value < 0.05, likelihood ratio test [LRT]) was performed. Pathological skeletal muscle aging was confirmed between 21 and 24 months by a combination of molecular and pathological biomarkers. Myofiber denervation was confirmed with qRT-PCR of Chrnd, Chrng, Myog, Runx1 and Gadd45ɑ in gastrocnemius muscle. Changes in muscle mass, cross-sectional myofiber size and percentage of fibres with centralized nuclei were analysed in a separate cohort of mice from the same colony (n = 4-6 per age group).RESULTS: We detected 51 significant DEGs in sciatic nerve of 18-month-old mice compared with 5-month-old mice (absolute value of fold change > 2; false discovery rate [FDR] < 0.05). Up-regulated DEGs included Dbp (log2 fold change [LFC] = 2.63, FDR < 0.001) and Lmod2 (LFC = 7.52, FDR = 0.001). Down-regulated DEGs included Cdh6 (LFC = -21.38, FDR < 0.001) and Gbp1 (LFC = -21.78, FDR < 0.001). We validated RNA-seq findings with qRT-PCR of various up- and down-regulated genes including Dbp and Cdh6. Up-regulated genes (FDR < 0.1) were associated with the AMP-activated protein kinase signalling pathway (FDR = 0.02) and circadian rhythm (FDR = 0.02), whereas down-regulated DEGs were associated with biosynthesis and metabolic pathways (FDR < 0.05). We identified seven significant clusters of genes (FDR < 0.05, LRT) with similar expression patterns across groups. Functional enrichment analysis of these clusters revealed biological processes that may be implicated in age-related changes in skeletal muscles and/or sarcopenia initiation including extracellular matrix organization and an immune response (FDR < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Gene expression changes in mouse peripheral nerve were detected prior to disturbances in myofiber innervation and sarcopenia onset. These early molecular changes we report shed a new light on biological processes that may be implicated in sarcopenia initiation and pathogenesis. Future studies are warranted to confirm the disease modifying and/or biomarker potential of the key changes we report here.
Characterising genomic variants is paramount in understanding the pathogenesis and heterogeneity of normal-karyotype acute myeloid leukaemia (AML-NK). In this study, clinically significant genomic biomarkers were ascertained using targeted DNA sequencing and RNA sequencing on eight AML-NK patients' samples collected at disease presentation and after complete remission. In silico and Sanger sequencing validations were performed to validate variants of interest, and they were followed by the performance of functional and pathway enrichment analyses for overrepresentation analysis of genes with somatic variants. Somatic variants involving 26 genes were identified and classified as follows: 18/42 (42.9%) as pathogenic, 4/42 (9.5%) as likely pathogenic, 4/42 (9.5%) as variants of unknown significance, 7/42 (16.7%) as likely benign and 9/42 (21.4%) as benign. Nine novel somatic variants were discovered, of which three were likely pathogenic, in the CEBPA gene with significant association with its upregulation. Transcription misregulation in cancer tops the affected pathways involving upstream genes (CEBPA and RUNX1) that were deregulated in most patients during disease presentation and were closely related to the most enriched molecular function gene ontology category, DNA-binding transcription activator activity RNA polymerase II-specific (GO:0001228). In summary, this study elucidated putative variants and their gene expression profiles along with functional and pathway enrichment in AML-NK patients.
Fever is a common presentation to urgent-care services and is linked to multiple disease processes. To rapidly determine the etiology of fever, improved diagnostic modalities are necessary. This prospective study of 100 hospitalized febrile patients included both positive (FP) and negative (FN) subjects in terms of infection status and 22 healthy controls (HC). We evaluated the performance of a novel PCR-based assay measuring five host mRNA transcripts directly from whole blood to differentiate infectious versus non-infectious febrile syndromes as compared to traditional pathogen-based microbiology results. The FP and FN groups observed a robust network structure with a significant correlation between the five genes. There were statistically significant associations between positive infection status and four of the five genes: IRF-9 (OR = 1.750, 95% CI = 1.16-2.638), ITGAM (OR = 1.533, 95% CI = 1.047-2.244), PSTPIP2 (OR = 2.191, 95% CI = 1.293-3.711), and RUNX1 (OR = 1.974, 95% CI = 1.069-3.646). We developed a classifier model to classify study participants based on these five genes and other variables of interest to assess the discriminatory power of the genes. The classifier model correctly classified more than 80% of the participants into their respective groups, i.e., FP or FN. The GeneXpert prototype holds promise for guiding rapid clinical decision-making, reducing healthcare costs, and improving outcomes in undifferentiated febrile patients presenting for urgent evaluation.
The growth hormone receptor (GHR) is a member of the cytokine/hematopoietic factor receptor superfamily, which plays an important role in the growth and development, immunity, and metabolism of animals. This study identified a 246 bp deletion variant in the intronic region of the GHR gene, and three genotypes, including type II, type ID, and type DD, were observed. Genotype analysis of structural variation (SV) was performed on 585 individuals from 14 yak breeds, and it was found that 246 bp deletion was present in each breed. The II genotype was dominant in all yak breeds except for SB yak. The association analysis of gene polymorphisms and growth traits in the ASD yak population showed that the 246 bp SV was significantly associated with body length at 6 months (p < 0.05). GHR messenger RNA (mRNA) was expressed in all the tested tissues, with significantly higher levels in the liver, muscle, and fat than in other organs. The results of transcription activity showed that the luciferase activity of the pGL4.10-DD vector was significantly higher than that of the pGL4.10-II vector (p < 0.05). Additionally, the transcription-factor binding prediction results showed that the SV in the runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) transcription-factor binding site may affect the transcriptional activity of the GHR gene, regulating yak growth and development. This study showed that the novel SV of the GHR gene could be used as a candidate molecular marker for the selection of the early growth trait in ASD yak.
Germline mutations in RUNX1 result in rare autosomal-dominant familial platelet disorder with predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia (FPD/AML). As genetic analysis is becoming increasingly prevalent, the diagnosis rate of FPD/AML is expected to increase. In this report, we present two pedigrees, one diagnosed molecularly and another highly suspected to be FPD/AML, whose members both received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Both pedigrees had a family history of thrombocytopenia, platelet dysfunction, and hematological malignancies. One family inherited a frameshift mutation (p.P240fs) of RUNX1, a known pathogenic variant. Another family inherited a point mutation (p.G168R) in the runt-homology domain, the clinical significance of which is uncertain at this point. As this mutation was completely absent from all population databases and had a relatively high REVEL score of 0.947, we thought that it would be dangerous to ignore its possible pathogenicity. Consequently, we avoided choosing HSCT donors from relatives of both families and performed HSCT from unrelated donors. In conclusion, our experience with two families of FPD/AML highlights the importance of searching for gene mutations associated with germline predisposition and indicates the necessity of developing a donor coordination system for FPD/AML patients, as well as a support system for families.
Comment on    Blood. 2023 Mar 9;141(10):1105-1118.
INTRODUCTION: Heterozygous pathogenic and likely pathogenic sequence variants in the RUNX1 (Runt-related Transcription Factor 1) gene are a common genetic cause of decreased platelet count and/or platelet dysfunction and an increased risk of developing myelodysplasia and acute myeloid leukemia. The majority of causative variants are substitutions, which rarely occur de novo. The aim of this case report is to present a patient with congenital thrombocytopenia caused by a deletion variant in exon 9 in the RUNX1 gene.CASE REPORT: A one-month-old male infant was admitted to the Clinical Hospital Center Rijeka because of anemia and thrombocytopenia verified in the course of an acute viral infection. During follow-up, he occasionally had petechiae and ecchymoses on the lower extremities after mild trauma, with no other symptoms. The patient had persistent slightly decreased values of platelets with normal morphology, but with pathological aggregation with adrenaline and adenosine diphosphate. Due to the unclear etiology of persistent mild thrombocytopenia, he was referred for genetic testing at the age of five. Genomic DNA was isolated from the patient's peripheral blood and whole-exome sequencing was performed using the next-generation sequencing method. A heterozygous frameshift variant, c.1160delG (NM_001754.4), was identified in exon 9. The variant is classified as likely pathogenic.CONCLUSION: To the best of our knowledge, the heterozygous variant c.1160delG in the RUNX1 gene was first described in our patient. Although pathogenic variants in the RUNX1 genes are very rare, persistently low platelet counts of unclear etiology should raise suspicion of an underlying genetic disorder.
Recent studies have suggested a role for N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification in neurological diseases. Hypothermia, a commonly used treatment for traumatic brain injury, plays a neuroprotective role by altering m6A modifications. In this study, methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing (MeRIP-Seq) was applied to conduct a genome-wide analysis of RNA m6A methylation in the rat hippocampus of Sham and traumatic brain injury (TBI) groups. In addition, we identified the expression of mRNA in the rat hippocampus after TBI with hypothermia treatment. Compared with the Sham group, the sequencing results of the TBI group showed that 951 different m6A peaks and 1226 differentially expressed mRNAs were found. We performed cross-linking analysis of the data of the two groups. The result showed that 92 hyper-methylated genes were upregulated, 13 hyper-methylated genes were downregulated, 25 hypo-methylated genes were upregulated, and 10 hypo-methylated genes were downregulated. Moreover, a total of 758 differential peaks were identified between TBI and hypothermia treatment groups. Among these differential peaks, 173 peaks were altered by TBI and reversed by hypothermia treatment, including Plat, Pdcd5, Rnd3, Sirt1, Plaur, Runx1, Ccr1, Marveld1, Lmnb2, and Chd7. We found that hypothermia treatment transformed some aspects of the TBI-induced m6A methylation landscape of the rat hippocampus.
Therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML) usually stems from exposure of the bone marrow to cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. t-AML is usually associated with poor overall survival, but occasionally t-AML can involve favorable-risk cytogenetics, including core binding factor AML (CBF-AML), which shows a recurrent chromosomal rearrangement with t(8;21) (q22;22) and 'inv(16) (p13.1;q22)/t(16;16)(p13.1;q22)', leading to 'RUNX1::RUNX1T1 and CBFB::MYH11' fusion genes, respectively. Therapy-related CBF-AML (t-CBF-AML) accounts for 5-15% of CBF-AML cases and tends to have better outcomes than t-AML with unfavorable cytogenetics. Although CBF-AML is sensitive to high-dose cytarabine, t-CBF-AML has worse overall survival than de novo CBF- AML. The objective of this review is to discuss the available data on the pathogenesis, mutations, and therapeutic options in patients with t-CBF-AML.
INTRODUCTION: Acute Myeloid Leukemia 1-Eight-Twenty-One (AML1-ETO) is an oncogenic fusion protein that causes acute myeloid leukemia. We examined the effects of melatonin on AML1-ETO by investigating cell differentiation, apoptosis, and degradation in leukemia cell lines.METHOD: We evaluated Kasumi-1, U937T, and primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML1-ETO-positive) cell proliferation by Cell Counting Kit-8 assay. Flow cytometry and western blotting were used to evaluate CD11b/CD14 levels (differentiation biomarkers) and the AML1-ETO protein degradation pathway, respectively. CM-Dil-labeled Kasumi-1 cells were also injected into zebrafish embryos to determine the effects of melatonin on vascular proliferation and development and to evaluate the combined effects of melatonin and common chemotherapeutic agents.RESULTS: AML1-ETO-positive acute myeloid leukemia cells were more sensitive to melatonin than AML1-ETO-negative cells. Melatonin increased apoptosis and CD11b/CD14 expression in AML1-ETO-positive cells and decreased the nuclear/cytoplasmic ratio, together suggesting that melatonin induced cell differentiation. Mechanistically, melatonin degraded AML1-ETO by activating the caspase-3 pathway and regulating the mRNA levels of AML1-ETO downstream genes. Melatonin reduced the number of neovessels in Kasumi-1-injected zebrafish, suggesting that melatonin inhibits cell proliferation in vivo. Finally, combining drugs with melatonin inhibited cell viability.DISCUSSION: Melatonin is a potential compound for the treatment of AML1-ETO-positive acute myeloid leukemia.
The European LeukemiaNet (ELN) recently proposed a revised recommendation for the diagnosis and management of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in adults, recognized as ELN-2022. However, validation in a large real-world cohort remains lacking. In this study, we aimed to validate the prognostic relevance of the ELN-2022 in a cohort of 809 de novo, non-M3, younger (ages 18-65 years) AML patients receiving standard chemotherapy. The risk categories of 106 (13.1%) patients were reclassified from that determined using ELN-2017 to that determined using ELN-2022. The ELN-2022 effectively helped distinguish patients as favorable, intermediate, and adverse risk groups in terms of remission rates and survival. Among patients who achieved first complete remission (CR1), allogeneic transplantation was beneficial for those in the intermediate risk group, but not for those in the favorable or adverse risk groups. We further refined the ELN-2022 system by re-categorizing AML patients with t(8;21)(q22;q22.1)/RUNX1::RUNX1T1 with KIThigh , JAK2 or FLT3-ITDhigh mutations into the intermediate risk subset, AML patients with t(7;11)(p15;p15)/NUP98::HOXA9 and AML patients with co-mutated DNMT3A and FLT3-ITD into the adverse risk subsets, and AML patients with complex or monosomal karyotypes, inv (3)(q21.3q26.2) or t(3;3)(q21.3;q26.2)/GATA2,MECOM(EVI1) or TP53 mutation into the very adverse risk subset. The refined ELN-2022 system performed effectively to distinguish patients as favorable, intermediate, adverse, and very adverse risk groups. In conclusion, the ELN-2022 helped distinguish younger, intensively treated patients into three groups with distinct outcomes; the proposed refinement of ELN-2022 may further improve risk stratification among AML patients. Prospective validation of the new predictive model is necessary.
The ABO blood group (BG) system is of great importance for blood transfusion and organ transplantation. Since the same transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) govern the expression of ABO BG antigens and regulate erythropoiesis, we hypothesized functional connections between both processes. We found significantly higher hemoglobin and hematocrit values in BG B blood donors compared to BG A. Furthermore, we observed that erythropoiesis in BG B hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) was accelerated compared to BG A HSPCs. Specifically, BG B HSPCs yielded more lineage-specific progenitors in a shorter time (B: 31.3 ± 2.2% vs. A: 22.5 ± 3.0%). Moreover, non-BG A individuals exhibited more terminally differentiated RBCs with higher enucleation rates containing more hemoglobin compared to BG A. Additionally, we detected increased levels of miRNA-215-5p and -182-5p and decreased expression of their target TFs RUNX1 and HES-1 mRNAs in erythroid BG B precursor cells compared to BG A. This highlights the important roles of these factors for the disappearance of differentiation-specific glycan antigens and the appearance of cancer-specific glycan antigens. Our work contributes to a deeper understanding of erythropoiesis gene regulatory networks and identifies its interference with BG-specific gene expression regulations particularly in diseases, where ABO BGs determine treatment susceptibility and disease progression.
The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) can be classified into different subgroups based on recurrent genetic alterations. Here, targeted RNA-sequencing was used to identify the novel subgroups of ALL in 144 B-other and 40 'classical' ALL samples. The 'classical' TCF3-PBX1, ETV6-RUNX1, KMT2A-rearranged, BCR-ABL1, and novel P2RY8-CRLF2, ABL-, JAK2-, ZNF384-, MEF2D-, and NUTM1-fusions were easily identified by fusion transcript analysis. IGH-CRLF2 and IGH-EPOR were found by abnormally high levels of expression of CRLF2 or EPOR. DUX4-rearranged were identified by the unusual expression of DUX4 genes and an alternative exon of ERG, or by clustering analysis of gene expression. PAX5-driven ALL, including fusions, intragenic amplifications and mutations were identified by SNV analysis and manual inspection using the IGV software. Exon junction analysis allowed detection of some intragenic ERG and IKZF1 deletions. CRLF2-high associated with initial white blood cell (WBC) ≥50,000/L and GATA3 risk alleles (rs3781093 and rs3824662), while ABL/JAK2/EPOR-fusions associated with high WBC, NCI high risk and IKZF1del. ZNF384-fusions associated with CALLA-negativity and NUTM1-fusions with infants. In conclusion, Targeted RNA-sequencing further classified 96/144 (66.7%) B-other cases. All novel ALL subgroups, except for iAMP21, hyper- and hypodiploid cases were identified. Curiously, we observed higher frequencies of girls within B-'rest' ALLs and boys in PAX5-driven cases.
INTRODUCTION: Gene expression profile of mitochondrial-related genes is not well deciphered in pediatric acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). We aimed to identify mitochondria-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in pediatric AML with their prognostic significance.METHODS: Children with de novo AML were included prospectively between July 2016-December 2019. Transcriptomic profiling was done for a subset of samples, stratified by mtDNA copy number. Top mitochondria-related DEGs were identified and validated by real-time PCR. A prognostic gene signature risk score was formulated using DEGs independently predictive of overall survival (OS) in multivariable analysis. Predictive ability of the risk score was estimated along with external validation in The Tumor Genome Atlas (TCGA) AML dataset.RESULTS: In 143 children with AML, twenty mitochondria-related DEGs were selected for validation, of which 16 were found to be significantly dysregulated. Upregulation of SDHC (p<0.001), CLIC1 (p=0.013) and downregulation of SLC25A29 (p<0.001) were independently predictive of inferior OS, and included for developing prognostic risk score. The risk score model was independently predictive of survival over and above ELN risk categorization (Harrell's c-index: 0.675). High-risk patients (risk score above median) had significantly inferior OS (p<0.001) and event free survival (p<0.001); they were associated with poor-risk cytogenetics (p=0.021), ELN intermediate/poor risk group (p=0.016), absence of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 (p=0.027), and not attaining remission (p=0.016). On external validation, the risk score also predicted OS (p=0.019) in TCGA dataset.DISCUSSION: We identified and validated mitochondria-related DEGs with prognostic impact in pediatric AML and also developed a novel 3-gene based externally validated gene signature predictive of survival.
BACKGROUND: Outcomes of patients with t(8;21)(q22;q22) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) remain heterogeneous.METHODS: To identify the risk factors for relapse and survival after allo-HSCT in t(8;21) AML patients, we retrospectively evaluated the clinical and prognostic information of 142 patients with t(8;21) AML undergoing allo-HSCT between January 2002 and September 2018 at 15 hematology research centers in China.RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients (20%) relapsed after undergoing allo-HSCT. A > 1-log reduction in RUNX1/RUNX1T1-based minimal residual disease (MRD) directly before allo-HSCT and a > 3-log reduction within the first 3 months after allo-HSCT were associated with a significantly lower post-transplant 3-year cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR, 9% vs. 62% and 10% vs. 47%,all P < 0.001), whereas transplantation during the second complete remission (CR2, 39% vs. 17% during CR1, P = 0.022), during relapse (62% vs. 17% during CR1, P < 0.001) and KIT D816 mutations at diagnosis (49% vs. 18%, P = 0.039) were related to a significantly higher 3-year CIR. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that a > 1-log reduction in MRD directly before transplantation (CIR: hazard ratio(HR), 0.21 [0.03-0.71], P = 0.029; overall survival (OS): HR = 0.27 [0.08-0.93], P = 0.038) and a > 3-log reduction in post-transplant MRD within the first 3 months (CIR: HR = 0.25 [0.07-0.89], P = 0.019; OS: HR = 0.38 [0.15-0.96], P = 0.040) were independent favorable prognostic factors, and transplantation during relapse (CIR: HR = 5.55 [1.23-11.56], P = 0.041; OS: HR = 4.07 [1.82-20.12], P = 0.045) were independent adverse prognostic factors for post-transplant relapse and survival in patients with t(8;21) AML.CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that for patients with t(8;21) AML undergoing allo-HSCT, it would be better to receive transplantation during CR1 with a MRD directly before transplantation achieving at least 1-log reduction. MRD monitoring in the first 3 months after allo-HSCT might be robust in predicting relapse and adverse survival after allo-HSCT.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) represents a heterogeneous disease entity that is continuously moving to a more genetically defined classification. The classification of AML with recurrent chromosomal translocations, including those involving core binding factor subunits, plays a critical role in diagnosis, prognosis, treatment stratification, and residual disease evaluation. Accurate classification of variant cytogenetic rearrangements in AML contributes to effective clinical management. We report here the identification of four variant t(8;V;21) translocations in newly diagnosed AML patients. Two patients showed a t(8;14) and a t(8;10) variation, respectively, with a morphologically normal-appearing chromosome 21 in each initial karyotype. Subsequent fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) on metaphase cells revealed cryptic three-way translocations t(8;14;21) and t(8;10;21). Each resulted in RUNX1::RUNX1T1 fusion. The other two patients showed karyotypically visible three-way translocations t(8;16;21) and t(8;20;21), respectively. Each resulted in RUNX1::RUNX1T1 fusion. Our findings demonstrate the importance of recognizing variant forms of t(8;21) translocations and emphasize the value of applying RUNX1::RUNX1T1 FISH for the detection of cryptic and complex rearrangements when abnormalities involving chromosome band 8q22 are observed in patients with AML.
Dissecting and identifying the major actors and pathways in the genesis, progression and aggressive advancement of breast cancer is challenging, in part because neoplasms arising in this tissue represent distinct diseases and in part because the tumors themselves evolve. This review attempts to illustrate the complexity of this mutational landscape as it pertains to the RUNX genes and their transcription co-factor CBFβ. Large-scale genomic studies that characterize genetic alterations across a disease subtype are a useful starting point and as such have identified recurring alterations in CBFB and in the RUNX genes (particularly RUNX1). Intriguingly, the functional output of these mutations is often context dependent with regards to the estrogen receptor (ER) status of the breast cancer. Therefore, such studies need to be integrated with an in-depth understanding of both the normal and corrupted function in mammary cells to begin to tease out how loss or gain of function can alter the cell phenotype and contribute to disease progression. We review how alterations to RUNX/CBFβ function contextually ascribe to breast cancer subtypes and discuss how the in vitro analyses and mouse model systems have contributed to our current understanding of these proteins in the pathogenesis of this complex set of diseases.
The Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family, which is essential for the differentiation of cells of neural crest origin, also plays a potential role in neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. Consecutive studies in various tumor types have demonstrated that the RUNX family can play either pro-tumorigenic or anti-tumorigenic roles in a context-dependent manner, including in response to chemotherapeutic agents. However, in primary neuroblastomas, RUNX3 acts as a tumor-suppressor, whereas RUNX1 bifunctionally regulates cell proliferation according to the characterized genetic and epigenetic backgrounds, including MYCN oncogenesis. In this review, we first highlight the current knowledge regarding the mechanism through which the RUNX family regulates the neurotrophin receptors known as the tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) family, which are significantly associated with neuroblastoma aggressiveness. We then focus on the possible involvement of the RUNX family in functional alterations of the p53 family members that execute either tumor-suppressive or dominant-negative functions in neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. By examining the tripartite relationship between the RUNX, Trk, and p53 families, in addition to the oncogene MYCN, we endeavor to elucidate the possible contribution of the RUNX family to neuroblastoma tumorigenesis for a better understanding of potential future molecular-based therapies.
A hallmark of acute myeloid leukaemias (AMLs) are chromosomal rearrangements that give rise to novel leukaemia-specific fusion genes. Most of these fusion genes are both initiating and driving events in AML and therefore constitute ideal therapeutic targets but are challenging to target by conventional drug development. siRNAs are frequently used for the specific suppression of fusion gene expression but require special formulations for efficient in vivo delivery. Here we describe the use of siRNA-loaded lipid nanoparticles for the specific therapeutic targeting of the leukaemic fusion gene RUNX1/ETO. Transient knockdown of RUNX1/ETO reduces its binding to its target genes and alters the binding of RUNX1 and its co-factor CBFβ. Transcriptomic changes in vivo were associated with substantially increased median survival of a t(8;21)-AML mouse model. Importantly, transient knockdown in vivo causes long-lasting inhibition of leukaemic proliferation and clonogenicity, induction of myeloid differentiation and a markedly impaired re-engraftment potential in vivo. These data strongly suggest that temporary inhibition of RUNX1/ETO results in long-term restriction of leukaemic self-renewal. Our results provide proof for the feasibility of targeting RUNX1/ETO in a pre-clinical setting and support the further development of siRNA-LNPs for the treatment of fusion gene-driven malignancies.
The fusion oncoprotein RUNX1/ETO which results from the chromosomal translocation t (8;21) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an essential driver of leukemic maintenance. We have previously shown that RUNX1/ETO knockdown impairs expression of the protein component of telomerase, TERT. However, the underlying molecular mechanism of how RUNX1/ETO controls TERT expression has not been fully elucidated. Here we show that RUNX1/ETO binds to an intergenic region 18 kb upstream of the TERT transcriptional start site and to a site located in intron 6 of TERT. Loss of RUNX1/ETO binding precedes inhibition of TERT expression. Repression of TERT expression is also dependent on the destabilization of the E3 ubiquitin ligase SKP2 and the resultant accumulation of the cell cycle inhibitor CDKN1B, that are both associated with RUNX1/ETO knockdown. Increased CDKN1B protein levels ultimately diminished TERT transcription with E2F1/Rb involvement. Collectively, our results show that RUNX1/ETO controls TERT expression directly by binding to its locus and indirectly via a SKP2-CDKN1B-E2F1/Rb axis.
Familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancy (FPD-MM; OMIM 601399) is related to germline RUNX1 mutation. The pathogenicity of RUNX1 variants was initially linked to FPD-MM phenotype, but the discovery of new variants through the expansion of genetic explorations in leukaemia is questioning this assertion. In this study, we add 10 families with germline RUNX1 variant explored at Armand Trousseau Hospital for leukaemia diagnosis or thrombocytopenia, to the 259 described so far. Detailed description of their personal and family history of haematological pathologies allows identifying three phenotypes related to germline RUNX1 variants: thrombocytopenia and/or malignant haematological disease with family history of haematological diseases, thrombocytopenia with no family history of haematological diseases and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) with no family history of haematological diseases. In the latter phenotype, ALL characteristics involving RUNX1 suggest the implication of germline variants in the onset of the malignancy.
Transcriptome analysis of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) has been pivotal to comprehending the convoluted biology of HNSCC tumors. MAPKAPK2 or MK2 is a critical modulator of the mRNA turnover of crucial genes involved in HNSCC progression. However, MK2-centric transcriptome profiles of tumors are not well known. This study delves into HNSCC progression with MK2 at the nexus to delineate the biological relevance and intricate crosstalk of MK2 in the tumor milieu. We performed next-generation sequencing-based transcriptome profiling of HNSCC cells and xenograft tumors to ascertain mRNA expression profiles in MK2-wild type and MK2-knockdown conditions. The findings were validated using gene expression assays, immunohistochemistry, and transcript turnover studies. Here, we identified a pool of crucial MK2-regulated candidate genes by annotation and differential gene expression analyses. Regulatory network and pathway enrichment revealed their significance and involvement in the HNSCC pathogenesis. Additionally, 3'-UTR-based filtering recognized important MK2-regulated downstream target genes and validated them by nCounter gene expression assays. Finally, immunohistochemistry and transcript stability studies revealed the putative role of MK2 in regulating the transcript turnover of IGFBP2, MUC4, and PRKAR2B in HNSCC. Conclusively, MK2-regulated candidate genes were identified in this study, and their plausible involvement in HNSCC pathogenesis was elucidated. These genes possess investigative values as targets for diagnosis and therapeutic interventions for HNSCC.
BACKGROUND: Therapy-related myeloid neoplasm (T-MN) rarely occurs among cancer survivors, and was characterized by poor prognosis. T-MN has germline predisposition in a considerable proportion. Here, clinical characteristics and germline/somatic variant profiles in T-MN patients were investigated, and the findings were compared with those of previous studies.METHODS: A review of medical records, cytogenetic study, targeted sequencing by next-generation sequencing, and survival analysis were performed on 53 patients with T-MN at a single institution in Korea.RESULTS: The patients were relatively younger compared to T-MN patients in other studies. Our T-MN patients showed a high frequency of complex karyotypes, -5/del(5q), and -7/del(7q), which was similar to the Japanese study group but higher than the Australian study group. The most common primary disease was non-Hodgkin lymphoma, followed by breast cancer. The detailed distributions of primary diseases were different across study groups. Seven patients (13.2%) harbored deleterious presumed/potential germline variants in cancer predisposition genes (CPG) such as BRIP1, CEBPA, DDX41, FANCM, NBN, NF1, and RUNX1. In the somatic variant profile, TP53 was the most frequently mutated gene, which was consistent with the previous studies about T-MN. However, the somatic variant frequency in our study group was lower than in other studies. Adverse factors for overall survival were male sex, older age, history of previous radiotherapy, previous longer cytotoxic therapy, and -5/del(5q).CONCLUSION: The findings of our study corroborate important information about T-MN patients. As well as a considerable predisposition to CPG, the clinical characteristics and somatic variant profile showed distinctive patterns. Germline variant testing should be recommended for T-MN patients. If the T-MN patients harbor pathogenic germline variants, the family members for stem cell donation should be screened for carrier status through germline variant testing to avoid donor-derived myeloid neoplasm. For the prediction of the prognosis in T-MN patients, sex, age, past treatment history, and cytogenetic findings can be considered.
OBJECTIVES: CRLF2 alterations are associated with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). This study aimed to explore the clinical, biological, and outcome features of pediatric BCP-ALL with CRLF2 abnormalities.METHODS: This study enrolled 630 childhood BCP-ALLs treated on CCLG-ALL 2008 or 2018 protocol. P2RY8-CRLF2 was determined by Sanger sequencing and CRLF2 expression was evaluated by qRT-PCR. The correlation between clinical, biological features and outcomes with P2RY8-CRLF2 or CRLF2 over-expression were analyzed.RESULTS: P2RY8-CRLF2 and CRLF2 over-expression were found in 3.33% and 5.71% respectively. P2RY8-CRLF2 was associated with male, higher frequency of CD7 expression, high WBC and MRD before consolidation. CRLF2 over-expression showed ETV6-RUNX1- , higher frequency of CD22, CD34, CD66c, CD86 expression, hyperdiploidy and high MRD at early treatment. The lower overall survival (OS) was found in patients with P2RY8-CRLF2 and confined only in IR group. Furthermore, adverse event-free survival and OS of P2RY8-CRLF2 were discovered comparing to those without known fusions or treated on CCLG-ALL 2008 protocol. However, P2RY8-CRLF2 was not confirmed as independent prognostic factors and no prognostic impact of CRLF2 over-expression was found.CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate P2RY8-CRLF2 identifies a subset of patients with specific features and adverse outcomes that could be improved by risk-directed treatment.
Introduction/Background The impact of biological sex on the clinical phenotype, genotype, and outcomes among patients with MDS is not well characterized. Materials and Methods We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and genomic data from male and female patients included in our institutional MDS database at Moffitt Cancer Center. Results Among 4580 patients with MDS, 2922 (66%) were men and 1658 (34%) were women. Women were younger (mean age 66.5 vs. 69 years for men, P < .001) at diagnosis. There were more Hispanic/black women than men (9% vs. 5%, P =<.001). Women had lower hemoglobin and higher platelet counts than men. More women had del 5q/monosomy 5 abnormalities compared to men (P =<.001). Therapy related MDS were more common in women than men (25% vs.17%, P=<.001). On assessment of molecular profile, SRSF2, U2AF1, ASXL1, and RUNX1 mutations were more frequent in men. The median overall survival (mOS) was 37.5 months (mo) for females compared to 35 monthsfor males, (P = .002). The mOS was significantly prolonged for women in lower-risk MDS, but not in higher-risk MDS. Women were more likely to respond to immunosuppression with ATG/CSA than men (38% vs. 19%, P= 0.04).Conclusion Ongoing research is needed for understanding the impact of sex on phenotype, genotype, and outcomes in patients diagnosed with MDS.
BACKGROUND: Corebinding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF-AML) is the most common cytogenetic subtype of pediatric AML. CBF-AML is associated with a relatively favorable outcome, although the relapse rate of approximately 40% indicates a high degree of clinical heterogeneity. The clinical impact of additional cytogenetic aberrations, including c-KIT and CEBPA mutations, in pediatric CBF-AML has not been well characterized, especially in the multi-ethnic region of Yunnan Province in China.METHODS: In this study, we retrospectively analyzed the clinical features, gene mutations, and prognoses of 72 pediatric patients newly diagnosed with non-M3 AML in Kunming Children's Hospital, China, from January 1, 2015 to May 31, 2020.RESULTS: Of the 72 pediatric patients with AML, 46% (33/72) had CBF-AML. Thirteen patients with CBF-AML (39%) had c-KIT mutations, five (15%) had CEBPA mutations, and eleven (33.3%) had no other cytogenetic aberrations. The c-KIT mutations, resulting from single nucleotide substitutions and small insertions or deletions, occurred in exons 8 and 17. All of the CBF-AML-associated CEBPA mutations were single mutations and occurred in patients with RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion. We found no significant differences in the clinical data between CBF-AML patients with c-KIT or CEBPA mutations and CBF-AML patients without other aberrations, and no prognostic significance was established for these mutations.CONCLUSION: Our study is the first to report the clinical impact of c-KIT and CEBPA mutations in pediatric patients with non-M3 CBF-AML from the multi-ethnic Yunnan Province, China. c-KIT and CEBPA mutations occurred at a higher frequency in CBF-AML cases and were associated with unique clinical characteristics; however, no potential molecular prognostic markers were identified.
Erratum in    Elife. 2023 Mar 22;12:
Regenerating prolonged multi-lineage hematopoiesis from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs), an unlimited cell source, is a crucial aim of regenerative hematology. In this study, we used a gene-edited PSC line and revealed that simultaneous expression of three transcription factors, Runx1, Hoxa9, and Hoxa10, drove the robust emergence of induced hematopoietic progenitor cells (iHPCs). The iHPCs engrafted successfully in wild-type animals and repopulated abundant and complete myeloid-, B-, and T-lineage mature cells. The generative multi-lineage hematopoiesis distributed normally in multiple organs, persisted over 6 months, and eventually declined over time with no leukemogenesis. Transcriptome characterization of generative myeloid, B, and T cells at the single-cell resolution further projected their identities to natural cell counterparts. Thus, we provide evidence that co-expression of exogenous Runx1, Hoxa9, and Hoxa10 simultaneously leads to long-term reconstitution of myeloid, B, and T lineages using PSC-derived iHPCs as the cell source.
Sound stimulus is encoded in mice by three molecularly and physiologically diverse subtypes of sensory neurons, called Ia, Ib, and Ic spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). Here, we show that the transcription factor Runx1 controls SGN subtype composition in the murine cochlea. Runx1 is enriched in Ib/Ic precursors by late embryogenesis. Upon the loss of Runx1 from embryonic SGNs, more SGNs take on Ia rather than Ib or Ic identities. This conversion was more complete for genes linked to neuronal function than to connectivity. Accordingly, synapses in the Ib/Ic location acquired Ia properties. Suprathreshold SGN responses to sound were enhanced in Runx1CKO mice, confirming the expansion of neurons with Ia-like functional properties. Runx1 deletion after birth also redirected Ib/Ic SGNs toward Ia identity, indicating that SGN identities are plastic postnatally. Altogether, these findings show that diverse neuronal identities essential for normal auditory stimulus coding arise hierarchically and remain malleable during postnatal development.
BACKGROUND: The rat sarcoma virus (RAS) pathway controls cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis, which have been implicated in the pathogenesis of various hematological malignancies. Prognostic importance of RAS gene mutation, relatively frequently in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), has been debated. We aimed to study RAS gene mutation profile and prognosis in 93 children with newly diagnosed ALL.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed clinical characteristics, treatment, and outcomes of 93 ALL children during first induction chemotherapy in Anhui Provincial Children's Hospital under the Chinese Children's Leukemia Group-acute lymphoblastic leukemia 2018 (CCLG-ALL-2018). All genomic DNA samples were obtained from bone marrow mononuclear cells upon new diagnosis. RAS gene mutation was performed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). All children were stratified into standard-, medium-, and high-risk groups, and then treated with risk-based regimens according to CCLG-ALL-2018 protocol.RESULTS: Of 93 ALL children, 26 (27.9%) were positive for RAS mutation, among whom 19 had N-RAS mutation, 8 had K-RAS mutation, and 1 had a double mutation. The ETV6/RUNX1 fusion gene was the most common genetic alteration (n=16, 17.2%). The most common adverse events during first induction chemotherapy were coagulation abnormalities (n=76, 81.7%), followed by fever (n=71, 76.3%) and alanine transaminase (ALT) elevation (n=34, 36.6%). Compared with negative RAS mutation group, the risk of hyperbilirubinemia was significantly reduced in RAS mutation group (P=0.018), and there was no significant difference in any other adverse events. The average duration of agranulocytosis during first induction chemotherapy was 6 days, and the average duration of agranulocytosis in RAS mutation group and RAS negative group was 6 and 5 days, with no significant difference. Multivariate linear regression analysis showed that in RAS mutation group, when body mass index (BMI) exceeded the median value of this ALL population (BMI >15.38), the risk of agranulocytosis was significantly increased (P=0.003).CONCLUSIONS: Newly diagnosed ALL in children with RAS mutation is less likely to be associated with fusion gene expression. RAS mutation increases the risk of agranulocytosis duration during first induction chemotherapy, lowers BMI and reduces the risk of hyperbilirubinemia in ALL children.
Adenosine to inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing, which is catalyzed by adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADAR) family of enzymes ADAR1 and ADAR2, has been shown to contribute to multiple cancers. However, other than chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) blast crisis, relatively little is known about its role in other types of hematological malignancies. Here, we found that ADAR2, but not ADAR1 and ADAR3, was specifically downregulated in the core binding factor (CBF) AML with t(8;21) or inv(16) translocations. In t(8;21) AML, RUNX1-driven transcription of ADAR2 was repressed by the RUNX1-ETO AE9a fusion protein in a dominant negative manner. Further functional studies confirmed that ADAR2 could suppress leukemogenesis specifically in t(8;21) and inv16 AML cells dependent on its RNA editing capability. Expression of two exemplary ADAR2-regulated RNA editing targets COPA and COG3 inhibited clonogenic growth of human t(8;21) AML cells. Our findings support a hitherto unappreciated mechanism leading to ADAR2 dysregulation in CBF AML and highlight the functional relevance of loss of ADAR2-mediated RNA editing to CBF AML.
Next-generation sequencing of AML has identified specific genetic mutations in AML patients. Hematologic Malignancies (HM)-SCREEN-Japan 01 is a multicenter study to detect actionable mutations using paraffin-embedded bone marrow (BM) clot specimens rather than BM fluid in AML patients for whom standard treatment has not been established. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the presence of potentially therapeutic target gene mutations in patients with newly diagnosed unfit AML and relapsed/refractory AML (R/R-AML) using BM clot specimens. In this study, 188 patients were enrolled and targeted sequencing was undertaken on DNA from 437 genes and RNA from 265 genes. High-quality DNA and RNA were obtained using BM clot specimens, with genetic alterations successfully detected in 177 patients (97.3%), and fusion transcripts in 41 patients (23.2%). The median turnaround time was 13 days. In the detection of fusion genes, not only common fusion products such as RUNX1-RUX1T1 and KMT2A rearrangements, but also NUP98 rearrangements and rare fusion genes were observed. Among 177 patients (72 with unfit AML, 105 with R/R-AML), mutations in KIT and WT1 were independent factors for overall survival (hazard ratio = 12.6 and 8.88, respectively), and patients with high variant allele frequency (≥40%) of TP53 mutations had a poor prognosis. As for the detection of actionable mutations, 38% (n = 69) of patients had useful genetic mutation (FLT3-ITD/TKD, IDH1/2, and DNMT3AR822 ) for treatment selection. Comprehensive genomic profiling using paraffin-embedded BM clot specimens successfully identified leukemic-associated genes that can be used as therapeutic targets.
We recently described a 16-gene expression signature for improved risk stratification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients called the AML Prognostic Score (APS). A subset of APS-high-risk AML patients showed increased levels of focal adhesion kinase (FAK), encoded by the Protein Tyrosine Kinase 2 (PTK2) gene, which was correlated with RUNX1 mutations. RUNX1 mutant cells are more sensitive to PTK2 inhibitors. As we were not able to detect RUNX1-binding sites in the PTK2 promoter, we hypothesized that RUNX1 might regulate micro(mi)RNAs that repress PTK2, such that loss-of-function RUNX1 mutations would result in reduced miRNA expression and derepression of PTK2. Examination of paired RNA-seq and miRNA-seq data from 301 AML cases revealed two miRNAs that positively correlated with RUNX1 expression, contained RUNX1-binding sites in their promoters and were predicted to target PTK2. We show that the hsa-let7a-2-3p and hsa-miR-135a-5p promoters are regulated by RUNX1, and that PTK2 is a direct target of both miRNAs. Even in the absence of RUNX1 mutations, hsa-let7a-2-3p and hsa-miR-135a-5p regulate PTK2 expression, and reduced expression of these two miRNAs sensitizes AML cells to PTK2 inhibition. These data explain how RUNX1 regulates PTK2, and identify potential miRNA biomarkers for targeting AML with PTK2 inhibitors.
Young adults with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) are rare, and the clinical significance of driver mutations has not yet been analysed. We analysed the gene mutations and copy number alterations (CNAs) in younger MDS patients using next-generation sequencing, targeting 68 genes that were recurrently mutated in myeloid malignancies, to investigate the correlation between their genetic alterations and clinical outcomes. We enrolled 55 patients retrospectively (aged < 50 years). At least one mutation was detected in 56% of the patients. The most frequently mutated genes were ASXL1 and RUNX1, 13% each. We defined higher-risk patients as those with ≥ 2 mutations, except for SF3B1 mutation, and/or CNA. The 3-year overall survival (OS) in patients with a higher-risk was lower than that in those with a lower-risk (50.8% vs. 71.8%, P = 0.024). Among the 44 transplant recipients, patients with higher-risk had a significantly lower OS and tended to have a higher cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) than those with a lower-risk (3-year OS: 38.0% vs. 64.4%, P = 0.039; 3-year CIR: 44.0% vs. 24.1%, P = 0.076). Our results showed that genetic aberrations can predict clinical outcomes in younger MDS patients, despite the low rate of genetic mutations.
Germline predisposition to haematological cancers is increasingly being recognised. Widespread adoption of high-throughput and whole genome sequencing is identifying large numbers of causative germline mutations. Constitutional pathogenic variants in six genes (DEAD-box helicase 41 [DDX41], ETS variant transcription factor 6 [ETV6], CCAAT enhancer binding protein alpha [CEBPA], RUNX family transcription factor 1 [RUNX1], ankyrin repeat domain containing 26 [ANKRD26] and GATA binding protein 2 [GATA2]) are particularly significant in increasing the risk of haematological cancers, with variants in some of these genes also associated with non-malignant syndromic features. Allogeneic blood and marrow transplantation (BMT) is central to management in many haematological cancers. Identification of germline variants may have implications for the patient and potential family donors. Beyond selection of an appropriate haematopoietic stem cell donor there may be sensitive issues surrounding identification and counselling of hitherto asymptomatic relatives. If BMT is needed, there is frequently a clinical urgency that demands a rapid integrated multidisciplinary approach to testing and decision making involving haematologists in collaboration with Clinical and Laboratory Geneticists. Here, we present best practice consensus guidelines arrived at following a meeting convened by the UK Cancer Genetics Group (UKCGG), the Cancer Research UK (CRUK) funded CanGene-CanVar research programme (CGCV), NHS England Genomic Laboratory Hub (GLH) Haematological Oncology Malignancies Working Group and the British Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (BSBMTCT).
BACKGROUND: Glioma is one of the most common, primary, and lethal adult brain tumors because of its extreme aggressiveness and poor prognosis. Several recent studies relevant to the immune function of CD44, a transmembrane glycoprotein as a significant hyaluronic acid receptor, have achieved great success, revealing the critical role of CD44 in immune infiltration in gliomas. The overexpression of CD44 has been verified to correlate with cancer aggressiveness and migration, while the clinical and immune features of CD44 expression have not yet been thoroughly characterized in gliomas.METHODS: Molecular and clinical data of glioma collected from publicly available genomic databases were analyzed.RESULTS: CD44 was up-expressed in malignant gliomas, notably in the 1p/19q non-codeletion cases, isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) wild-type, and mesenchymal subtypes in GBM samples. CD44 expression level strongly correlates with stromal and immune cells, mainly infiltrating the glioma microenvironment by single-cell sequencing analysis. Meanwhile, CD44 can be a promising biomarker in predicting immunotherapy responses and mediating the expression of PD-L1. Finally, RUNX1/CD44 axis could promote the proliferation and migration of gliomas.CONCLUSIONS: Therefore, CD44 was responsible for glioma growth and progression. It could potentially lead to a novel target for glioma immunotherapy or a prognostic biomarker.
Although hematologic malignancies (HM) are no longer considered exclusively sporadic, additional awareness of familial cases has yet to be created. Individuals carrying a (likely) pathogenic germline variant (e.g., in ETV6, GATA2, SAMD9, SAMD9L, or RUNX1) are at an increased risk for developing HM. Given the clinical and psychological impact associated with the diagnosis of a genetic predisposition to HM, it is of utmost importance to provide high-quality, standardized patient care. To address these issues and harmonize care across Europe, the Familial Leukemia Subnetwork within the ERN PaedCan has been assigned to draft an European Standard Clinical Practice (ESCP) document reflecting current best practices for pediatric patients and (healthy) relatives with (suspected) familial leukemia. The group was supported by members of the German network for rare diseases MyPred, of the Host Genome Working Group of SIOPE, and of the COST action LEGEND. The ESCP on familial leukemia is proposed by an interdisciplinary team of experts including hematologists, oncologists, and human geneticists. It is intended to provide general recommendations in areas where disease-specific recommendations do not yet exist. Here, we describe key issues for the medical care of familial leukemia that shall pave the way for a future consensus guideline: (i) identification of individuals with or suggestive of familial leukemia, (ii) genetic analysis and variant interpretation, (iii) genetic counseling and patient education, and (iv) surveillance and (psychological) support. To address the question on how to proceed with individuals suggestive of or at risk of familial leukemia, we developed an algorithm covering four different, partially linked clinical scenarios, and additionally a decision tree to guide clinicians in their considerations regarding familial leukemia in minors with HM. Our recommendations cover, not only patients but also relatives that both should have access to adequate medical care. We illustrate the importance of natural history studies and the need for respective registries for future evidence-based recommendations that shall be updated as new evidence-based standards are established.
Down syndrome (DS), a complex disorder that is caused by the trisomy of chromosome 21 (Hsa21), is a major cause of congenital heart defects (CHD). Interestingly, only about 50% of individuals with Hsa21 trisomy manifest CHD. Here we review the genetic basis of CHD in DS, focusing on genes that regulate extracellular matrix (ECM) organization. The overexpression of Hsa21 genes likely underlies the molecular mechanisms that contribute to CHD, even though the genes responsible for CHD could only be located in a critical region of Hsa21. A role in causing CHD has been attributed not only to protein-coding Hsa21 genes, but also to genes on other chromosomes, as well as miRNAs and lncRNAs. It is likely that the contribution of more than one gene is required, and that the overexpression of Hsa21 genes acts in combination with other genetic events, such as specific mutations or polymorphisms, amplifying their effect. Moreover, a key function in determining alterations in cardiac morphogenesis might be played by ECM. A large number of genes encoding ECM proteins are overexpressed in trisomic human fetal hearts, and many of them appear to be under the control of a Hsa21 gene, the RUNX1 transcription factor.
Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive breast cancer subtype for which no effective targeted therapies are available. Growing evidence suggests that chemotherapy-resistant cancer cells with stem-like properties (CSC) may repopulate the tumor. The androgen receptor (AR) is expressed in up to 50% of TNBCs, and AR inhibition decreases CSC and tumor initiation. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) correlates with poor prognosis in TNBC and is regulated by the AR in prostate cancer. Our group has shown that RUNX1 promotes TNBC cell migration and regulates tumor gene expression. We hypothesized that RUNX1 is regulated by the AR and that both may work together in TNBC CSC to promote disease recurrence following chemotherapy. Chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) experiments in MDA-MB-453 revealed AR binding to RUNX1 regulatory regions. RUNX1 expression is upregulated by dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in MDA-MB-453 and in an AR+-TNBC HCI-009 patient-derived xenograft (PDX) tumors (p < 0.05). RUNX1 is increased in a CSC-like experimental model in MDA-MB-453 and SUM-159PT cells (p < 0.05). Inhibition of RUNX1 transcriptional activity reduced the expression of CSC markers. Interestingly, RUNX1 inhibition reduced cell viability and enhanced paclitaxel and enzalutamide sensitivity. Targeting RUNX1 may be an attractive strategy to potentiate the anti-tumor effects of AR inhibition, specifically in the slow-growing CSC-like populations that resist chemotherapy which lead to metastatic disease.
The runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) play prominent roles in cell cycle progression, differentiation, apoptosis, immunity and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. There are three members in the mammalian RUNX family, each with distinct tissue expression profiles. RUNX genes play unique and redundant roles during development and adult tissue homeostasis. The ability of RUNX proteins to influence signaling pathways, such as Wnt, TGFβ and Hippo-YAP, suggests that they integrate signals from the environment to dictate cell fate decisions. All RUNX genes hold master regulator roles, albeit in different tissues, and all have been implicated in cancer. Paradoxically, RUNX genes exert tumor suppressive and oncogenic functions, depending on tumor type and stage. Unlike RUNX1 and 2, the role of RUNX3 in stem cells is poorly understood. A recent study using cancer-derived RUNX3 mutation R122C revealed a gatekeeper role for RUNX3 in gastric epithelial stem cell homeostasis. The corpora of RUNX3R122C/R122C mice showed a dramatic increase in proliferating stem cells as well as inhibition of differentiation. Tellingly, RUNX3R122C/R122C mice also exhibited a precancerous phenotype. This review focuses on the impact of RUNX3 dysregulation on (1) stem cell fate and (2) the molecular mechanisms underpinning early carcinogenesis.
The most frequent chromosomal rearrangement in childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is translocation t(12;21)(p13;q22). It results in the fusion of the ETV6::RUNX1 gene, which is active in the regulation of multiple crucial cellular pathways. Recent studies hypothesize that many translocations are influenced by RAG-initiated deletions, as well as defects in the RAS and NRAS pathways. According to a "two-hit" model for the molecular pathogenesis of pediatric ETV6::RUNX1-positive B-ALL, the t(12;21) translocation requires leukemia-causing secondary mutations. Patients with ETV6::RUNX1 express up to 60 different aberrations, which highlights the heterogeneity of this B-ALL subtype and is reflected in differences in patient response to treatment and chances of relapse. Most studies of secondary genetic changes have concentrated on deletions of the normal, non-rearranged ETV6 allele. Other predominant structural changes included deletions of chromosomes 6q and 9p, loss of entire chromosomes X, 8, and 13, duplications of chromosome 4q, or trisomy of chromosomes 21 and 16, but the impact of these changes on overall survival remains unclarified. An equally genetically diverse group is the recently identified new B-ALL subtype ETV6::RUNX1-like ALL. In our review, we provide a comprehensive description of recurrent secondary mutations in pediatric B-ALL with t(12;21) to emphasize the value of investigating detailed molecular mechanisms in ETV6::RUNX1-positive B-ALL, both for our understanding of the etiology of the disease and for future clinical advances in patient treatment and management.
Recent genome-wide studies have demonstrated that a significant proportion of children with cancer carry predisposing germline variants, with varying incidence according to cancer type. In general, there is a lower incidence of underlying germline predisposing variants among patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) compared to other types of cancer, but higher rates may be found in patients with specific leukemia subtypes. Two categories of ALL-predisposing variants have been described: common polymorphisms, conferring low-penetrance ALL susceptibility, and rare variants, conferring high-penetrance ALL susceptibility. Variants in genes encoding hematopoietic transcription factors are an example of the latter, and include ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5 and RUNX1. Here, we present an overview of the germline variants detected in patients with B-ALL in these four genes and a summary of functional studies analyzing the impacts of these variants upon protein function, and hence their effects with regard to leukemia predisposition. Furthermore, we review specific clinical characteristics of patients with B-ALL, including specific features of the patient or family history and associated somatic genetic characteristics, which are suggestive of underlying germline alterations in one of these genes. This review may be of assistance in the interpretation of patient genetic germline findings, made even more challenging by the absence of a suggestive family history or by an unknown familial cancer history. Despite a low incidence of underlying germline alterations in ETV6, IKZF1, PAX5 and RUNX1 in patients with B-ALL, identification of an underlying ALL predisposition syndrome is relevant to the clinical management of patients and their relatives, as the latter are also at risk of developing cancer.
INTRODUCTION: Medullary pancreatic carcinoma (MPC) is a rare subtype of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. MPCs represent less than 1% of all pancreatic cancers, and, with only 26 cases in the literature, knowledge regarding drug response and treatment outcome is very limited.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present the case of a 64-year-old male patient with MPC who was treated by left pancreatic resection and adjuvant chemotherapy. Due to local recurrence, the patient underwent intended curative reoperation. From both surgical specimens, patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) and, from the recurrence, a patient-derived cell line (PDCL) were established. We subsequently performed an in-depth characterization of this cell line including phenotypic characterization, surface protein expression, growth, and migratory performance as well as mutational analysis using whole-exome sequencing (WES). Additionally, in vitro drug sensitivity toward the standard-of-care chemotherapeutic regimen and selected targeted therapies was evaluated.RESULTS: The pathological and molecular properties of this rare MPC case observed in the patient's tumors are preserved in the corresponding PDX and the PDCL of HROP68Tu2. Despite displaying an "immunogenic phenotype" with marked T-cell infiltration and a high-level expression of HLA II and Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), molecular analysis revealed microsatellite stability but a multitude of mutations affecting KRAS, TP53, KAT6B, FOXG1, RUNX1, and GRIK2 among others. Furthermore, HROP68Tu2 cells were susceptible toward 5-FU, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and erlotinib as single agents, but only a moderate synergistic response was seen to the drugs of the FOLFIRINOX regimen. Even worse, the drugs of the two combinations gemcitabine plus paclitaxel and gemcitabine plus erlotinib showed antagonistic effects. Moreover, lapatinib, PRIMA-Met1, and olaparib selected as targeted therapeutics according to the mutational profiles and protein expression inhibited HROP68Tu2 cells' growth.CONCLUSION: This study illustrates the establishment of the first preclinical MPC models as well as the first in-depth characterization of an MPC PDCL. Since the scientific and clinical knowledge of this rare pancreatic cancer type is very limited, the presented models contribute to a better understanding of MPC and might be a valuable tool for the development of future treatment options.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) patients are predisposed to develop plexiform neurofibromas (PNFs). Three endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response pathways restore cellular homeostasis. The unfolded protein response (UPR) sensors contribute to tumor initiation in many cancers. We found that all three UPR pathways were activated in mouse and human PNFs, with protein kinase RNA [PKR]-like ER kinase (PERK) the most highly expressed. We tested if neurofibroma cells adapt to ER stress, leading to their growth. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of PERK reduced mouse neurofibroma-sphere number, and genetic inhibition in PERK in Schwann cell precursors (SCPs) decreased tumor-like lesion numbers in a cell transplantation model. Further, in a PNF mouse model, deletion of PERK in Schwann cells (SCs) and SCPs reduced tumor size, number, and increased survival. Mechanistically, loss of Nf1 activated PERK-eIF2α-ATF4 signaling and increased ATF4 downstream target gene p21 translocation from nucleus to cytoplasm. This nucleus-cytoplasm translocation was mediated by exportin-1. Runx transcriptionally activated ribosome gene expression and increased protein synthesis to allow SCs to adapt to ER stress and tumor formation. We propose that targeting proteostasis might provide cytotoxic and/or potentially durable novel therapy for PNFs.
Arathi SrinivasanAims  The aim was to study cytogenetics and molecular genetic profile in pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and correlate it with induction outcomes. Subjects and Methods  A retrospective study of cytogenetics and molecular genetics of 98 children with B-cell ALL from January 2013 to May 2018 was done. Cytogenetics and molecular genetics were done in the bone marrow using multiplex reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and G-banded karyotyping, respectively. Minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment was done at the end of induction by flowcytometry. Results  Of the 98 children, 83 (84.6%) had evaluable cytogenetics, with 11 (13.25%) being abnormal karyotypes. Of the 11 abnormal karyotypes, seven children (8.4%) had hyperdiploidy, one had hypodiploidy, and three had miscellaneous findings. In molecular genetics, TEL-AML1 (ETV6/RUNX1)[t(12;21)] was the most common fusion gene abnormality (12.2% [12/98]), followed by E2A-PBX1 [t(1;19)] (5%), BCR/ABL1 [t(9;22)] (3%), and MLL-AF4 [t(4;11)] (1%). All the 98 children attained morphologic remission at the end of induction. All children with hyperdiploidy (7/7) attained remission and MRD negativity, but one expired during maintenance chemotherapy of disseminated tuberculosis. The child with hypodiploidy was MRD-positive. Three (25%) children with t (12;21) were MRD-positive. All children with Ph + ALL, t(1:19), and t(4;11) were MRD-negative. Fifty-two children had no detected abnormalities, six of whom had MRD positivity (11.5%). Conclusion  Cytogenetic and molecular genetic subgrouping prognosticates ALL outcomes. Although 25% of TEL-AML + children had MRD positivity, larger studies are required to validate the same. End-of-induction MRD outcomes did not correlate with chromosomal aberrations.
The runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1) gene with its lncRNA RUNXOR are recently becoming a research focus in various diseases, specifically immune-related diseases as they are implicated in multiple pathways. Interestingly, their role in multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unstudied. The present study explored the role of RUNXOR/RUNX1 in the development and progression of MS and investigated their possible mechanism of action. We measured the serum expression levels of lncRNA RUNXOR, as well as RUNX1, microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2), nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNAs in 30 healthy controls and 120 MS patients subdivided into 4 groups: 30 clinically isolated syndrome patients, 30 relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients in relapse, 30 RRMS patients in remission and 30 secondary progressive MS patients. Additionally, we measured the serum protein levels of RUNX1, MAP2, NGF, BDNF and interleukin-10 (IL-10). All measured RNA expression levels were markedly downregulated and, consequently, the protein levels of RUNX1, MAP2, NGF, BDNF and IL-10 were significantly decreased in MS patients compared to healthy controls. Moreover, the levels of the measured parameters varied significantly within the MS groups. According to receiver-operating-characteristic (ROC) curve and logistic regression analyses, lncRNA RUNXOR, RUNX1 mRNA and its protein levels were predictors of disease progression, in addition to RUNX1 mRNA exhibiting a diagnostic potential. Altogether, this study suggests the implication of the RUNXOR-RUNX1 axis in MS development, progression, and increased MS-related disability, and highlights the potential utility of the studied parameters as promising diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers for MS.
DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2402606/v1PMCID: PMC9900986PMID: 36747878
The present study tested the hypothesis that PKC-α recruitment in the presence of the p38α/β MAPK inhibitor SB203580 facilitated the appearance and cell cycle re-entry of nestin(+)-neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (NNVMs) and induced a transcript profile delineating a proliferative phenotype. Phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) treatment did not induce de novo nestin expression or increase the cell cycle re-entry of 1-day old NNVMs but significantly increased Runx1 and CDKN2a mRNA levels and downregulated ECT2 mRNA expression. SB203580 administration to PDBu-treated NNVMs induced de novo nestin expression, preferentially increased the density (normalized to 500 NNVMs) of nestin(+)-NNVMs that incorporated 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (PDBu, 1.4±3 versus PDBu/SB203580, 128±34; n=5 independent litters), significantly inhibited CDKN2a and Runx1 mRNA upregulation and reversed ECT2 mRNA downregulation. PDBu treatment of NNVMs reduced PKC-α, PKC-δ and PKC-ε protein levels and GF109203X (conventional PKC isoform inhibitor) selectively attenuated PKC-α protein downregulation. GF109203X administration to PDBu/SB203580-treated NNVMs significantly reduced the density of nestin(+)-NNVMs that incorporated 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (PDBu/SB203580/GF109203X, 40±46; n=5). Moreover, GF109203X/PDBu/SB203580 treatment unmasked the predominant appearance of a separate NNVM population that incorporated 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (PDBu/SB203580/GF109203X, 192±42; n=5) delineated by the absence of de novo nestin expression. Sotrastaurin (conventional/novel PKC isoform inhibitor) administration to PDBu/SB203580-treated NNVMs significantly attenuated the density of nestin(+)-NNVMs (PDBu/SB203580/sotrastaurin, 8±10; n=4) and nestin(-)-NNVMs (PDBu/SB203580/sotrastaurin, 64±30; n=4) that incorporated 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine. These data reveal that the neonatal rat heart contains at least two separate populations of NNVMs that re-enter the cell cycle and the preferential appearance of nestin(+)- or nestin(-)-NNVMs is driven by distinct PKC isoforms in the presence of SB203580.
The implementation of whole genome sequencing and large somatic gene panels in haematological malignancies is identifying an increasing number of individuals with either potential or confirmed germline predisposition to haematological malignancy. There are currently no national or international best practice guidelines with respect to management of carriers of such variants or of their at-risk relatives. To address this gap, the UK Cancer Genetics Group (UKCGG), CanGene-CanVar and the NHS England Haematological Oncology Working Group held a workshop over two days on 28-29th April 2022, with the aim of establishing consensus guidelines on relevant clinical and laboratory pathways. The workshop focussed on the management of disease-causing germline variation in the following genes: DDX41, CEBPA, RUNX1, ANKRD26, ETV6, GATA2. Using a pre-workshop survey followed by structured discussion and in-meeting polling, we achieved consensus for UK best practice in several areas. In particular, high consensus was achieved on issues regarding standardised reporting, variant classification, multidisciplinary team working and patient support. The best practice recommendations from this meeting may be applicable to an expanding number of other genes in this setting.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The objectives of this study were to investigate the cyto-molecular profile and survival of pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML).METHODS: This prospective study was carried out in a tertiary care hospital from October 2018 to December 2020. Karyotype and cytogenetics analyses were done to identify chromosomal aberrations in pediatric AML. The targeted molecular panel utilized the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and fragment analysis.RESULTS: A total of 70 patients of AML with aged ≤18 years were enrolled in this study. The cytogenetic analyses revealed abnormal/recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities (CA) in 64.3% of patients and normal cytogenetics (CN) in 35.7% of patients. FAB M2 subtype showed frequent aberrant expression of the CD19 marker. CD7, CD11b, and CD36a were significantly present in the absence of molecular markers. Common chromosomal abnormalities were t(translocation) (8;21) (55%), monosomy/deletion 7 (13%), monosomal karyotype (5%) and complex karyotype (3%). The fusion transcripts RUNX1-RUNX1T1 [t(8;21)] (41%) and CBFB-MYH11 [t(16;16)] (3%) were detected by RT-PCR and FLT3-TKD D835 mutation (1.5%) by allele-specific oligo PCR. Fragment analysis revealed NPM1 (8%) mutation and FLT-ITD (9.5%) mutations. Complete remission was achieved in all evaluable patients. The median follow-up period of our patients was 225 days (IQR 28; 426 days). The median event-free survival (EFS) in all patients was 11.9 months (95% CI, 5-12.6 months). The forty months overall survival probability (pOS) was 58% in all patients.CONCLUSION: The majority of patients had abnormal/recurrent cytogenetics abnormalities. FAB M2 subtype showed frequent aberrant expression of the CD19. The absence of molecular markers may suggest the presence of CD7, CD11b, and CD36a expression. The overall survival has increased considerably in LMIC.
RUNX1 familial platelet disorder (RUNX1-FPD) is a hematopoietic disorder caused by germline loss-of-function mutations in the RUNX1 gene and characterized by thrombocytopathy, thrombocytopenia, and an increased risk of developing hematologic malignancies, mostly of myeloid origin. Disease pathophysiology has remained incompletely understood, in part because of a shortage of in vivo models recapitulating the germline RUNX1 loss of function found in humans, precluding the study of potential contributions of non-hematopoietic cells to disease pathogenesis. Here, we studied mice harboring a germline hypomorphic mutation of one Runx1 allele with a loss-of-function mutation in the other Runx1 allele (Runx1 L148A/- mice), which display many hematologic characteristics found in human RUNX1-FPD patients. Runx1 L148A/- mice displayed robust and pronounced thrombocytopenia and myeloid-biased hematopoiesis, associated with an HSC intrinsic reconstitution defect in lymphopoiesis and expansion of myeloid progenitor cell pools. We demonstrate that specific deletion of Runx1 from bone marrow stromal cells in Prrx1-cre;Runx1 fl/fl mice did not recapitulate these abnormalities, indicating that the hematopoietic abnormalities are intrinsic to the hematopoietic lineage, and arguing against a driving role of the bone marrow microenvironment. In conclusion, we report a RUNX1-FPD mouse model faithfully recapitulating key characteristics of human disease. Findings do not support a driving role of ancillary, non-hematopoietic cells in the disruption of hematopoiesis under homeostatic conditions.
BACKGROUND: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy represents the most advanced immunotherapy against relapsed/refractory B cell malignancies. While cytokine release syndrome and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome are distinctive, known CAR T-cell acute adverse events, hematological toxicity has been increasingly reported. Cytopenia following CAR T-cell treatment is attributed in most cases to lymphodepletion regimens, bridging chemotherapy, or radiotherapy. However, when cytopenia becomes prolonged, the development of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) should be considered.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of high risk (HR)-MDS following CAR T-cell therapy in a patient with relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma. Eight months after CAR T-cell infusion, the blood count showed progressive, worsening cytopenia and the bone marrow biopsy revealed multilineage dysplasia without excess of blasts associated with chromosome 7 deletion and RUNX1 mutation. Next generation sequencing analysis, retrospectively performed on stored samples, showed a germ line CSF3R mutation, CEBPA clonal hematopoiesis, but no RUNX1 lesion.CONCLUSION: We describe a case of HR-MDS, with deletion of chromosome 7 and acquisition of RUNX1 mutation, developing after CAR T-cell therapy in a patient with clonal hematopoiesis (CH). Previous chemotherapy favored MDS onset; however, we could not exclude the fact that the impairment of immunosurveillance related to either lymphodepletion or CAR T-cell infusion may play a role in MDS development. Thus, we designed a multicenter prospective study (ClonHema-CAR-T-Study) to investigate if cytopenia after CAR T-cell treatment may be due to underling CH as well as the presence of secondary myeloid malignancies.
Erratum in    Oncogene. 2023 Mar 15;:
BACKGROUND: Germline mutations in RUNX1 can cause a familial platelet disorder that may lead to acute myeloid leukemia, an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by moderate thrombocytopenia, platelet dysfunction, and a high risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome. Discerning the pathogenicity of novel RUNX1 variants is critical for patient management.OBJECTIVES: To extend the characterization of RUNX1 variants and evaluate their effects by transcriptome analysis.METHODS: Three unrelated patients with long-standing thrombocytopenia carrying heterozygous RUNX1 variants were included: P1, who is a subject with recent development of myelodysplastic syndrome, with c.802 C>T[p.Gln268∗] de novo; P2 with c.586A>G[p.Thr196Ala], a variant that segregates with thrombocytopenia and myeloid neoplasia in the family; and P3 with c.476A>G[p.Asn159Ser], which did not segregate with thrombocytopenia or neoplasia. Baseline platelet evaluations were performed. Ultrapure platelets were prepared for platelet transcriptome analysis.RESULTS: In P1 and P2, but not in P3, transcriptome analysis confirmed aberrant expression of genes recognized as RUNX1 targets. Data allowed grouping patients by distinct gene expression profiles, which were partitioned with clinical parameters. Functional studies and platelet mRNA expression identified alterations in the actin cytoskeleton, downregulation of GFI1B, defective GPVI downstream signaling, and reduction of alpha granule proteins, such as thrombospondin-1, as features likely implicated in thrombocytopenia and platelet dysfunction.CONCLUSION: Platelet phenotype, familial segregation, and platelet transcriptomics support the pathogenicity of RUNX1 variants p.Gln268∗ and p.Thr196Ala, but not p.Asn159Ser. This study is an additional proof of concept that platelet RNA analysis could be a tool to help classify pathogenic RUNX1 variants and identify novel RUNX1 targets.
Diabetic nephropathy (DN) accompanied by cardiac fibrosis (CF) increases the mortality rate among people with diabetes. This study sought to explore the molecular mechanism of long non-coding RNA X inactive specific transcript (lncRNA XIST) in CF in DN mice. The animal model of DN was established by streptozocin (STZ). The levels of lncRNA XIST, microRNA (miR)-106a-5p, and RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), followed by biochemical analysis, hematoxylin & eosin and Masson staining, echocardiography, and quantification of collagen I, collagen III, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), and transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) levels through qRT-PCR and Western blot assay. The subcellular localization of lncRNA XIST was analyzed by nuclear/cytoplasmic fractionation assay and the bindings of miR-106a-5p to lncRNA XIST and RUNX1 were confirmed by RNA immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase assays. Functional rescue experiments were performed to validate the role of miR-106a-5p/RUNX1 in CF in DN mice. lncRNA XIST and RUNX1 were elevated while miR-106a-5p was decreased in STZ mice. lncRNA XIST inhibition reduced myocardial injury and collagen deposition, along with decreased levels of fasting blood glucose, serum creatinine, blood urea nitrogen, and urinary microalbumin, collagen I, collagen III, α-SMA, and TGF-β1. lncRNA XIST competitively bound to miR-106a-5p to promote RUNX1 transcription. miR-106a-5p downregulation or RUXN1 upregulation reversed the protective role of lncRNA XIST inhibition in STZ mice. lncRNA XIST competitively bound to miR-106a-5p to promote RUNX1 transcription, thereby aggravating renal dysfunction and CF in DN mice.
We aimed to evaluate the expression levels and the prognostic value of growth arrest specific 5 (GAS5) and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) genes in children with ITP. This prospective cohort study included 100 patients with newly diagnosed ITP (patient group) and 100 healthy children of matched age and sex (control group). We evaluated the expression levels of both GAS5 and RUNX1 genes at the time of diagnosis before the introduction of treatment. GAS5 was under-expressed, while RUNX1 was over-expressed among the newly diagnosed ITP children compared with the control group. Patients with GAS5 levels >0.50 had a significantly faster recovery compared with patients with levels≤0.50 while patients with levels of RUNX1≤2.6 had a significantly faster recovery compared with patients with levels >2.6. The best cut-off values of GAS5 and RUNX1 to predict complete recovery of ITP were ˃0.40 and ˂3.18, respectively, yielding a sensitivity of 76.47% and 79.41%, respectively. The best cut-off values of GAS5 and RUNX1 expression that predict chronic ITP were ˂0.17 and ˃4.1, respectively, yielding sensitivity of 88.89% and 77.78%, respectively. GAS5 and RUNX1 could be useful markers in children with primary ITP to predict disease course.
Since its initial discovery as a natural isotopologue of dihydrogen oxide (1 H2 O), extensive research has focused on the biophysical, biochemical, and pharmacological effects of deuterated water (2 H2 O [D2 O, also referred to as "heavy water"]). Using a panel of cultured human pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells we have profiled (i) D2 O-induced phenotypic antiproliferative and apoptogenic effects, (ii) redox- and proteotoxicity-directed stress response gene expression, and (iii) phosphoprotein-signaling related to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and MAP-kinase stress response pathways. Differential array analysis revealed early modulation of stress response gene expression in both BxPC-3 and PANC-1 PDAC cells elicited by D2 O (90%; ≤6 h; upregulated: HMOX1, NOS2, CYP2E1, CRYAB, DDIT3, NFKBIA, PTGS1, SOD2, PTGS2; downregulated: RUNX1, MYC, HSPA8, HSPA1A) confirmed by independent RT-qPCR analysis. Immunoblot-analysis revealed rapid (≤6 h) onset of D2 O-induced MAP-kinase signaling (p-JNK, p-p38) together with ER stress response upregulation (p-eIF2α, ATF4, XBP1s, DDIT3/CHOP). Next, we tested the chemotherapeutic efficacy of D2 O-based drinking water supplementation in an orthotopic PDAC model employing firefly luciferase-expressing BxPC-3-FLuc cells in SCID mice. First, feasibility and time course of systemic deuteration (30% D2 O in drinking water; 21 days) were established using time-resolved whole-body proton magnetic resonance imaging and isotope-ratio mass spectrometry-based plasma (D/H)-analysis. D2 O-supplementation suppressed tumor growth by almost 80% with downregulated expression of PCNA, MYC, RUNX1, and HSP70 while increasing tumor levels of DDIT3/CHOP, HO-1, and p-eIF2α. Taken together, these data demonstrate for the first time that pharmacological induction of systemic deuteration significantly reduces orthotopic tumor burden in a murine PDAC xenograft model.
Germline GATA2 mutations predispose to myeloid malignancies resulting from the progressive acquisition of additional somatic mutations. Here we describe clinical and biological features of 78 GATA2-deficient patients. Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell phenotypic characterization revealed an exhaustion of myeloid progenitors. Somatic mutations in STAG2, ASXL1 and SETBP1 genes along with cytogenetic abnormalities (monosomy 7, trisomy 8, der(1;7)) occurred frequently in patients with GATA2 germline mutations. Patients were classified into three hematopoietic spectra based on bone marrow cytomorphology. No somatic additional mutations were detected in patients with normal bone marrow (spectrum 0), whereas clonal hematopoiesis mediated by STAG2 mutations was frequent in those with a hypocellular and/or myelodysplastic bone marrow without excess blasts (spectrum 1). Finally, SETBP1, RAS pathway and RUNX1 mutations were predominantly associated with leukemic transformation stage (spectrum 2), highlighting their implications in the transformation process. Specific somatic alterations, potentially providing distinct selective advantages to affected cells, are therefore associated with the clinical/hematological evolution of GATA2 syndrome. Our study not only suggests that somatic genetic profiling will help clinicians in their management of patients, but will also clarify the mechanism of leukemogenesis in the context of germline GATA2 mutations.
BACKGROUND: RUNX1-IT1 has been characterized as a tumor suppressive long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) in several types of cancer but not gastric cancer (GC). This study aimed to explore the role of RUNX1-IT1 in GC.METHODS: The expression of RUNX1-IT1, microRNA (miR)-20a precursor and mature miR-20a in GC and healthy tissues donated by GC patients (n=62) were measured by RT-qPCR. Correlation analysis was performed by linear regression. The expression of mature miR-20a and miR-20a precursor in cells with overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 was also determined by RT-qPCR. Cell invasion and migration were evaluated by Transwell assays.RESULTS: RUNX1-IT1 was downregulated in GC. Across GC tissues, RUNX1-IT1 and mature miR-20a were inversely correlated. However, RUNX1-IT1 and miR-20a precursor were not closely correlated. RUNX1-IT1 and miR-20a precursor were predicted to interact with each other, and overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 in GC cells decreased the expression levels of mature miR-20a. Transwell assay showed that the enhancing effect of miR-20a on cell invasion and migration was reduced by overexpression of RUNX1-IT1.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX1-IT1 may suppress the GC cell movement by inhibiting the maturation of miR-20a.
Erratum in    J Clin Invest. 2023 May 1;133(9):
DOI: 10.1101/2023.01.10.23284322PMCID: PMC9882519PMID: 36711871
Functional perturbations of the cohesin complex with subsequent changes in chromatin structure and replication are reported in a multitude of cancers including acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Mutations of its STAG2 subunit may predict unfavorable risk as recognized by the 2022 European Leukemia Net recommendations, but the underlying evidence is limited by small sample sizes and conflicting observations regarding clinical outcomes, as well as scarce information on other cohesion complex subunits. We retrospectively analyzed data from a multi-center cohort of 1615 intensively treated AML patients and identified distinct co-mutational patters for mutations of STAG2, which were associated with normal karyotypes (NK) and concomitant mutations in IDH2, RUNX1, BCOR, ASXL1, and SRSF2. Mutated RAD21 was associated with NK, mutated EZH2, KRAS, CBL, and NPM1. Patients harboring mutated STAG2 were older and presented with decreased white blood cell, bone marrow and peripheral blood blast counts. Overall, neither mutated STAG2, RAD21, SMC1A nor SMC3 displayed any significant, independent effect on clinical outcomes defined as complete remission, event-free, relapse-free or overall survival. However, we found almost complete mutual exclusivity of genetic alterations of individual cohesin subunits. This mutual exclusivity may be the basis for therapeutic strategies via synthetic lethality in cohesin mutated AML.
BACKGROUND: Genomic signatures contributing to high tumour mutational burden (TMB-H) independent from mismatch-repair deficiency (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) status are not well studied. We aimed to characterise molecular features of microsatellite stable (MSS) TMB-H gastrointestinal tumours.METHODS: Molecular alterations of 48 606 gastrointestinal tumours from Caris Life Sciences (CARIS) identified with next-generation sequencing were compared among MSS-TMB-H, dMMR/MSI-H, and MSS-TMB-low (L) tumours, using χ2 or Fisher's exact tests. Antitumour immune response within the tumour environment was predicted by analysing the infiltration of immune cells and immune signatures using The Cancer Genome Atlas database. The Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test were used to evaluate the impact of gene alterations on the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors in MSS gastrointestinal cancers from the CARIS database, a Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center cohort, and a Peking University Cancer Hospital cohort.FINDINGS: MSS-TMB-H was observed in 1600 (3·29%) of 48 606 tumours, dMMR/MSI-H in 2272 (4·67%), and MSS-TMB-L in 44 734 (92·03%). Gene mutations in SMAD2, MTOR, NFE2L2, RB1, KEAP1, TERT, and RASA1 might impair antitumour immune response despite TMB-H, while mutations in 16 other genes (CDC73, CTNNA1, ERBB4, EZH2, JAK2, MAP2K1, MAP2K4, PIK3R1, POLE, PPP2R1A, PPP2R2A, PTPN11, RAF1, RUNX1, STAG2, and XPO1) were related to TMB-H with enhanced antitumour immune response independent of dMMR/MSI-H, constructing a predictive model (modified TMB [mTMB]) for immune checkpoint inhibitor efficacy. Patients with any mutation in the mTMB gene signature, in comparison with patients with mTMB wildtype tumours, showed a superior survival benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitors in MSS gastrointestinal cancers in the CARIS cohort (n=95, median overall survival 18·77 months [95% CI 17·30-20·23] vs 7·03 months [5·73-8·34]; hazard ratio 0·55 [95% CI 0·31-0·99], p=0·044). In addition, copy number amplification in chromosome 11q13 (eg, CCND1, FGF genes) was more prevalent in MSS-TMB-H tumours than in the dMMR/MSI-H or MSS-TMB-L subgroups.INTERPRETATION: Not all mutations related to TMB-H can enhance antitumour immune response. More composite biomarkers should be investigated (eg, mTMB signature) to tailor treatment with immune checkpoint inhibitors. Our data also provide novel insights for the combination of immune checkpoint inhibitors and drugs targeting cyclin D1 or FGFs.FUNDING: US National Cancer Institute, Gloria Borges WunderGlo Foundation, Dhont Family Foundation, Gene Gregg Pancreas Research Fund, San Pedro Peninsula Cancer Guild, Daniel Butler Research Fund, Victoria and Philip Wilson Research Fund, Fong Research Project, Ming Hsieh Research Fund, Shanghai Sailing Program, China National Postdoctoral Program for Innovative Talents, China Postdoctoral Science Foundation, National Natural Science Foundation of China.
Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) implementation to perform accurate diagnosis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) represents a major challenge for molecular laboratories in terms of specialization, standardization, costs and logistical support. In this context, the PETHEMA cooperative group has established the first nationwide diagnostic network of seven reference laboratories to provide standardized NGS studies for AML patients. Cross-validation (CV) rounds are regularly performed to ensure the quality of NGS studies and to keep updated clinically relevant genes recommended for NGS study. The molecular characterization of 2856 samples (1631 derived from the NGS-AML project; NCT03311815) with standardized NGS of consensus genes (ABL1, ASXL1, BRAF, CALR, CBL, CEBPA, CSF3R, DNMT3A, ETV6, EZH2, FLT3, GATA2, HRAS, IDH1, IDH2, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MPL, NPM1, NRAS, PTPN11, RUNX1, SETBP1, SF3B1, SRSF2, TET2, TP53, U2AF1 and WT1) showed 97% of patients having at least one mutation. The mutational profile was highly variable according to moment of disease, age and sex, and several co-occurring and exclusion relations were detected. Molecular testing based on NGS allowed accurate diagnosis and reliable prognosis stratification of 954 AML patients according to new genomic classification proposed by Tazi et al. Novel molecular subgroups, such as mutated WT1 and mutations in at least two myelodysplasia-related genes, have been associated with an adverse prognosis in our cohort. In this way, the PETHEMA cooperative group efficiently provides an extensive molecular characterization for AML diagnosis and risk stratification, ensuring technical quality and equity in access to NGS studies.
It has been reported that gene mutations in SF3B1 and PHF6 are mutually exclusive. However, this observation has never been rigorously assessed. We report the clinicopathologic and molecular genetic features of 21 cases of myeloid neoplasms with double mutations in SF3B1 and PHF6, including 9 (43%) with myelodysplastic syndrome, 5 (24%) with acute myeloid leukemia, 4 (19%) with myeloproliferative neoplasms, and 3 (14%) with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms. Multilineage dysplasia with ring sideroblasts, increased blasts, and myelofibrosis are common morphologic findings. All cases but one had diploid or non-complex karyotypes. SF3B1 mutations were detected in the first analysis of all the patients. PHF6 mutations occurred either concurrently with SF3B1 mutations or in subsequent follow-up samples and are associated with disease progression and impending death in most cases. Most cases had co-mutations, the most common being ASXL1, RUNX1, TET2, and NRAS. With a median follow-up of 39 months (range, 3-155), 17 (81%) patients died, 3 were in complete remission, and 1 had persistent myelodysplastic syndrome. The median overall survival was 51 months. In summary, concurrent mutations in SF3B1 and PHF6 are rare, but they do exist in a variety of myeloid neoplasms, with roles as early initiating events and in disease progression, respectively.
A common problem in the study of human malignancy is the elucidation of cancer driver mechanisms associated with recurrent deletion of regions containing multiple genes. Taking B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) and large deletions of 6q [del(6q)] as a model, we integrated analysis of functional cDNA clone tracking assays with patient genomic and transcriptomic data, to identify the transcription factors FOXO3 and PRDM1 as candidate tumour suppressor genes (TSG). Analysis of cell cycle and transcriptomic changes following overexpression of FOXO3 or PRDM1 indicated that they co-operate to promote cell cycle exit at the pre-B cell stage. FOXO1 abnormalities are absent in B-ALL, but like FOXO3, FOXO1 expression suppressed growth of TCF3::PBX1 and ETV6::RUNX1 B-ALL in-vitro. While both FOXOs induced PRDM1 and other genes contributing to late pre-B cell development, FOXO1 alone induced the key transcription factor, IRF4, and chemokine, CXCR4. CRISPR-Cas9 screening identified FOXO3 as a TSG, while FOXO1 emerged as essential for B-ALL growth. We relate this FOXO3-specific leukaemia-protective role to suppression of glycolysis based on integrated analysis of CRISPR-data and gene sets induced or suppressed by FOXO1 and FOXO3. Pan-FOXO agonist Selinexor induced the glycolysis inhibitor TXNIP and suppressed B-ALL growth at low dose (ID50 < 50 nM).
In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complexes sustain leukemic identity by driving high levels of MYC. Previous studies have implicated the hematopoietic transcription factor PU.1 (SPI1) as an important target of SWI/SNF inhibition, but PU.1 is widely regarded to have pioneer-like activity. As a result, many questions have remained regarding the interplay between PU.1 and SWI/SNF in AML as well as normal hematopoiesis. Here we found that PU.1 binds to most of its targets in a SWI/SNF-independent manner and recruits SWI/SNF to promote accessibility for other AML core regulatory factors, including RUNX1, LMO2, and MEIS1. SWI/SNF inhibition in AML cells reduced DNA accessibility and binding of these factors at PU.1 sites and redistributed PU.1 to promoters. Analysis of nontumor hematopoietic cells revealed that similar effects also impair PU.1-dependent B-cell and monocyte populations. Nevertheless, SWI/SNF inhibition induced profound therapeutic response in an immunocompetent AML mouse model as well as in primary human AML samples. In vivo, SWI/SNF inhibition promoted leukemic differentiation and reduced the leukemic stem cell burden in bone marrow but also induced leukopenia. These results reveal a variable therapeutic window for SWI/SNF blockade in AML and highlight important off-tumor effects of such therapies in immunocompetent settings.SIGNIFICANCE: Disruption of PU.1-directed enhancer programs upon SWI/SNF inhibition causes differentiation of AML cells and induces leukopenia of PU.1-dependent B cells and monocytes, revealing the on- and off-tumor effects of SWI/SNF blockade.
Dysregulated Wnt/β-catenin signal transduction is implicated in initiation, propagation, and poor prognosis in AML. Epigenetic inactivation is central to Wnt/β-catenin hyperactivity, and Wnt/β-catenin inhibitors are being investigated as targeted therapy. Dysregulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling has also been linked to accelerated aging. Since AML is a disease of old age (>60 yrs), we hypothesized age-related differential activity of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in AML patients. We probed Wnt/β-catenin expression in a series of AML in the elderly (>60 yrs) and compared it to a cohort of pediatric AML (<18 yrs). RNA from diagnostic bone marrow biopsies (n = 101) were evaluated for key Wnt/β-catenin molecule expression utilizing the NanoString platform. Differential expression of significance was defined as >2.5-fold difference (p < 0.01). A total of 36 pediatric AML (<18 yrs) and 36 elderly AML (>60 yrs) were identified in this cohort. Normal bone marrows (n = 10) were employed as controls. Wnt/β-catenin target genes (MYC, MYB, and RUNX1) showed upregulation, while Wnt/β-catenin inhibitors (CXXR, DKK1-4, SFRP1-4, SOST, and WIFI) were suppressed in elderly AML compared to pediatric AML and controls. Our data denote that suppressed inhibitor expression (through mutation or hypermethylation) is an additional contributing factor in Wnt/β-catenin hyperactivity in elderly AML, thus supporting Wnt/β-catenin inhibitors as potential targeted therapy.
As a transcription factor in the RUNT domain core-binding factor family, RUNX1 is crucial in multiple stages of hematopoiesis, and its mutation can cause familial platelet disorder with a predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia. Previous work has established that RUNX1 is involved in the maturation of megakaryocytes (MKs) and the production of platelets. Recent studies have shown that there exists a subpopulation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) with relatively high expression of von Willebrand factor and CD41 at the apex of the HSC hierarchy, termed MK-HSCs, which can give rise to MKs without going through the traditional differentiation trajectory from HSC via MPP (multipotent progenitors) and MEP (megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor). Here, by using Runx1F/FMx1-Cre mouse model, we discovered that the MK-HSC to MK direct differentiation can occur within 1 cell division, and RUNX1 is an important regulator in the process. Runx1 knockout results in a drastic decrease in platelet counts and a severe defect in the differentiation from MK-HSCs to MKs. Single cell RNA sequencing (RNAseq) analysis shows that MK-HSCs have a distinct gene expression signature compared with non-MK-HSCs, and Runx1 deletion alters the platelet and MK-related gene expression in MK-HSCs. Furthermore, bulk RNAseq and Cut&Run analyses show that RUNX1 binds to multiple essential MK or platelet developmental genes, such as Spi1, Selp, and Itga2b and regulates their expressions in MK-HSCs. Thus, by modulating the expression of MK-related genes, RUNX1 governs the direct differentiation from MK-HSCs to MKs and platelets.
Childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) is characterised by recurrent genetic abnormalities that drive risk-directed treatment strategies. Using current techniques, accurate detection of such aberrations can be challenging, due to the rapidly expanding list of key genetic abnormalities. Whole genome sequencing (WGS) has the potential to improve genetic testing, but requires comprehensive validation. We performed WGS on 210 childhood B-ALL samples annotated with clinical and genetic data. We devised a molecular classification system to subtype these patients based on identification of key genetic changes in tumour-normal and tumour-only analyses. This approach detected 294 subtype-defining genetic abnormalities in 96% (202/210) patients. Novel genetic variants, including fusions involving genes in the MAP kinase pathway, were identified. WGS results were concordant with standard-of-care methods and whole transcriptome sequencing (WTS). We expanded the catalogue of genetic profiles that reliably classify PAX5alt and ETV6::RUNX1-like subtypes. Our novel bioinformatic pipeline improved detection of DUX4 rearrangements (DUX4-r): a good-risk B-ALL subtype with high survival rates. Overall, we have validated that WGS provides a standalone, reliable genetic test to detect all subtype-defining genetic abnormalities in B-ALL, accurately classifying patients for the risk-directed treatment stratification, while simultaneously performing as a research tool to identify novel disease biomarkers.
Erratum in    Nat Immunol. 2023 Feb 20;:
BACKGROUND: Acute leukemia is a common health problem in adults and children, however its exact molecular etiology is still unclear.METHODS: The expression of EVI-1 was assessed in the bone marrow of 178 de-novo acute leukemia patients (101 AML, 71 ALL and 6 MPAL), compared to 40 control subjects. EVI-1 gene aberrations were also assessed in 69 AML patients using Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) technique.RESULTS: The expression of EVI-1 was significantly lower in ALL patients compared to control [0.177 (0.002-15.189) vs 0.953 (0.179-1.68); respectively, P = 0.009]. There was no significant difference between AML patients and control group [0.150 (0.0-641) vs 0.953 (0.179-1.68); respectively, P = 0.082]. The sensitivity, specificity, AUC of EVI-1 in ALL were (80.3 %, 60 % and 0.778; respectively, P = 0.009), and (67.3 %, 60 %, 0.667; respectively P = 0.082) in AML patients. One patient showed EVI-1 gene rearrangement in a complex karyotype and four patients showed EVI-1 amplification in hyperdiploid karyotypes. All patients with BCR-ABL fusion were EVI-1 over-expressers (P = 0.010). AML patients with EVI-1 low expression were positively associated with t(8;21)(q22;q22)RUNX1:RUNX1T1 fusion, favorable recurrent translocation, and low genetic risk (P = 0.037, P = 0.023, and P = 0.013; respectively). There was a significant association between low EVI-1 expression and prolonged overall survival (OS) in AML patients, while there was no significant association with the disease-free survival (DFS) (P = 0.048 and P = 0.419). There was no significant impact of EVI-1 expression on OS and DFS rates in ALL patients.CONCLUSION: EVI-1 expression could be a helpful diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive biomarker for acute leukemia especially in AML.
INTRODUCTION: Mutations in the promoter region and exons of ABO gene may cause changes in the expression of blood group antigens, often showing a weak ABO phenotype. Here, we identified a novel weak ABO subgroup allele that caused Bel phenotype and explored its mechanisms.METHODS: The ABO phenotype of subjects (Chinese Han nationality) was classified by serological method. The plasma activity of erythrocyte glycosyltransferase was detected by the phosphate coupling method. ABO subtype genotyping was performed by PCR-SSP and exon sequencing. The activity of the promoter was evaluated by a dual-luciferase reporter assay.RESULTS: We identified a mutation exon 1 c.15_16insTGTTG of the B allele in a Bel subject. Genealogical investigation showed that the mutation was inherited from her mother. The mutation was located in the promoter region of the ABO gene. The dual-luciferase reporter assay showed that the mutation inactivated GATA-1 and RUNX1-mediated activity of the ABO gene promoter, leading to a decrease in the expression and activity of B glycosyltransferase.CONCLUSION: A novel Bvar ABO subgroup allele was identified. The novel mutation can reduce the promoter activity that activated by GATA-1 and RUNX1, subsequently causing the Bel phenotype.
Pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease with various genetic abnormalities. Recent advances in genetic analysis have enabled the identification of causative genes in > 90% of pediatric AML cases. Fusion genes such as RUNX1::RUNX1T1, CBFB::MYH11, and KMT2A::MLLT3 are frequently detected in > 70% of pediatric AML cases, whereas FLT3-internal tandem duplication, CEBPA-bZip, and NPM1 mutations are detected in approximately 5-15% of cases, respectively. Conversely, mutations in DNMT3A, TET2, and IDH, which are common in adults, are extremely rare in pediatric AML. The genetic characteristics of pediatric AML are slightly different from those of adult AML. For accurate risk stratification and treatment intensity, genome analysis should be performed in a simple, fast, and inexpensive manner and the results should be returned to patients in real time. As with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the presence or absence of minimal residual disease is an important factor in determining the success of treatment against AML, and it is important to predict prognosis and formulate treatment strategies considering the genetic abnormalities. For the development and clinical application of new molecularly targeted therapies based on identified genetic abnormalities, it is necessary to explore when and in which combinations drugs will be most effective.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Bile acids trigger a hepatic inflammatory response, causing cholestatic liver injury. Runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1), primarily known as a master modulator in hematopoiesis, plays a pivotal role in mediating inflammatory responses. However, RUNX1 in hepatocytes is poorly characterized, and its role in cholestasis is unclear. Herein, we aimed to investigate the role of hepatic RUNX1 and its underlying mechanisms in cholestasis.APPROACH AND RESULTS: Hepatic expression of RUNX1 was examined in cholestatic patients and mouse models. Mice with liver-specific ablation of Runx1 were generated. Bile duct ligation and 1% cholic acid diet were used to induce cholestasis in mice. Primary mouse hepatocytes and the human hepatoma PLC/RPF/5- ASBT cell line were used for mechanistic studies. Hepatic RUNX1 mRNA and protein levels were markedly increased in cholestatic patients and mice. Liver-specific deletion of Runx1 aggravated inflammation and liver injury in cholestatic mice induced by bile duct ligation or 1% cholic acid feeding. Mechanistic studies indicated that elevated bile acids stimulated RUNX1 expression by activating the RUNX1 -P2 promoter through JAK/STAT3 signaling. Increased RUNX1 is directly bound to the promotor region of inflammatory chemokines, including CCL2 and CXCL2 , and transcriptionally repressed their expression in hepatocytes, leading to attenuation of liver inflammatory response. Blocking the JAK signaling or STAT3 phosphorylation completely abolished RUNX1 repression of bile acid-induced CCL2 and CXCL2 in hepatocytes.CONCLUSIONS: This study has gained initial evidence establishing the functional role of hepatocyte RUNX1 in alleviating liver inflammation during cholestasis through JAK/STAT3 signaling. Modulating hepatic RUNX1 activity could be a new therapeutic target for cholestasis.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is the most common cardiac genetic disorder characterized by cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and cardiac fibrosis. Pathological cardiac remodeling in the myocardium of HCM patients may progress to heart failure. An in-depth elucidation of the lineage-specific changes in pathological cardiac remodeling of HCM is pivotal for the development of therapies to mitigate the progression. Here, we performed single-nucleus RNA-seq of the cardiac tissues from HCM patients or healthy donors and conducted spatial transcriptomic assays on tissue sections from patients. Unbiased clustering of 55,122 nuclei from HCM and healthy conditions revealed 9 cell lineages and 28 clusters. Lineage-specific changes in gene expression, subpopulation composition, and intercellular communication in HCM were discovered through comparative analyses. According to the results of pseudotime ordering, differential expression analysis, and differential regulatory network analysis, potential key genes during the transition towards a failing state of cardiomyocytes such as FGF12, IL31RA, and CREB5 were identified. Transcriptomic dynamics underlying cardiac fibroblast activation were also uncovered, and potential key genes involved in cardiac fibrosis were obtained such as AEBP1, RUNX1, MEOX1, LEF1, and NRXN3. Using the spatial transcriptomic data, spatial activity patterns of the candidate genes, pathways, and subpopulations were confirmed on patient tissue sections. Moreover, we showed experimental evidence that in vitro knockdown of AEBP1 could promote the activation of human cardiac fibroblasts, and overexpression of AEBP1 could attenuate the TGFβ-induced activation. Our study provided a comprehensive analysis of the lineage-specific regulatory changes in HCM, which laid the foundation for targeted drug development in HCM.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignancy of the stem cell precursors of the myeloid lineage. DNA methylation is an important DNA modification that regulates gene expression. Investigating AML heterogeneity based on DNA methylation could be clinically informative for improving clinical diagnosis and prognosis. The AML subtypes based on DNA methylation were identified by unsupervised consensus clustering. The association of these subtypes with gene mutation, copy number variations, immune infiltration and clinical features were further explored. Finally, univariate, LASSO and multivariate cox regression analyses were used to identify prognosis-associated genes and construct risk model for AML patients. In addition, we validated this model by using other datasets and explored the involved biological functions and pathways of its related genes. Three CpG island methylator phenotypes (CIMP-H, CIMP-M and CIMP-L) were identified using the 91 differential CpG sites. Overall survival, morphology, macrophages M0 and monocytes were distinct from each other. The most frequently mutated gene in CIMP-L was DNMT3A while which in CIMP-M that was RUNX1. In addition, the TIDE scores, used to predict the response to immune checkpoint inhibitors, were significantly different among CIMPs. The CIMP-associated prognosis risk model (CPM) using 32 key genes had convinced accuracy of prediction to forecast 0.5-year, 1-year, 3-year and 5-year survival rates. Moreover, the risk score-related genes were significantly enriched in pattern specification process, regionalization, embryonic organ morphogenesis and other critical cancer-related biological functions. We systematically and comprehensively analyzed the DNA methylation in AML. The risk model we constructed is an independent predictor of overall survival in AML and could be used as prognostic factor for AML treatment.
The production of abnormal leukocytes defines leukemia as either a primary or secondary process. They can be classified as acute or chronic based on the rapidity of proliferation and myeloid or lymphoid based on the cell of origin. Predominant subtypes are acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), involving the myeloid lineage; acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL); and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), involving the lymphoid chain. Other less common variants, such as mature B-cell and T-cell leukemias, and NK cell-related leukemias, to name a few, arise from mature white blood cells. However, with the advent of next-generation sequencing (NGS) and the identification of various biomarkers, the World Health Organization (WHO) classification was updated in 2016, bringing multiple changes to the traditional classification for acute leukemias and myeloid neoplasms. GLOBOCAN, a global observatory for cancer trends, showed a global incidence of 474,519 cases, with 67,784 in North America. The Age-Standardized Rates are around 11 per 100,000, with a mortality rate of approximately 3.2. Many genetic risk factors have been identified, such as Klinefelter and Down syndromes, ataxia telangiectasia, Bloom syndrome, and telomeropathies such as Fanconi anemia, dyskeratosis congenita, and Shwachman-Diamond syndrome; germline mutations in RUNX1, CEBPA, to name a few. Viral infections associated with Epstein Barr virus, human T-lymphotropic virus, ionizing radiation exposure, radiation therapy, environmental exposure with benzene, smoking history, history of chemotherapy with alkylating agents, and topoisomerase II agents have also been implicated in the development of acute leukemias. Symptoms are nonspecific and can include fever, fatigue, weight loss, bone pain, bruising, or bleeding. Definitive diagnoses often require bone marrow biopsy, the results of which help the hematologists and stem cell transplant physicians regarding the selection of treatment options ranging from chemotherapy to allogeneic stem cell transplantation. The prognosis is variable depending on the leukemia subtype in question. Acute vs. chronic myeloid leukemia: Blasts, which are immature and dysfunctional cells, normally make up 1% to 5% of marrow cells. Acute leukemias are characterized by greater than 20% blasts in the peripheral blood smear or on bone marrow leading to a more rapid onset of symptoms. In contrast, chronic leukemia has less than 20% blasts with a relatively chronic onset of symptoms. The accelerated/blast phase is a transformation of chronic myeloid leukemia into an acute phase with a significantly higher degree of blasts. As such, the four major subtypes of leukemia are: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL): ALL is seen in patients with the blastic transformation of B and T cells. It is the most common leukemia in the pediatric population, accounting for up to 80% of cases in this group vs. 20% of cases in adults. Treatment among adolescents and young adults is predominantly inspired by pediatric regimens with better survival rates.  . Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML): AML is characterized by greater than 20% myeloid blasts and is the most common acute leukemia in adults. It is the most aggressive cancer with a variable prognosis depending upon the molecular subtypes. . Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL): CLL occurs from the proliferation of monoclonal lymphoid cells. Most cases occur in people between the ages of 60 and 70. CLL is considered an indolent disease, for the most part, meaning not all patients with a diagnosis will need to start treatment until symptomatic from the disease. Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML): CML typically arises from reciprocal translocation and fusion of BCR on chromosome 22 and ABL1 on chromosome 9, resulting in dysregulated tyrosine kinase on chromosome 22 called the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome. This, in turn, causes a monoclonal population of dysfunctional granulocytes, predominantly neutrophils, basophils, and eosinophils.
Runt-related transcription factor-1 (Runx1) is well known for its functions in hematopoiesis and leukemia but recent research has focused on its role in skeletal development and osteoarthritis (OA). Deficiency of the Runx1 gene is fatal in early embryonic development, and specific knockout of Runx1 in cell lineages of cartilage and bone leads to delayed cartilage formation and impaired bone calcification. Runx1 can regulate genes including collagen type II (Col2a1) and X (Col10a1), SRY-box transcription factor 9 (Sox9), aggrecan (Acan) and matrix metalloproteinase 13 (MMP-13), and the up-regulation of Runx1 improves the homeostasis of the whole joint, even in the pathological state. Moreover, Runx1 is activated as a response to mechanical compression, but impaired in the joint with the pathological progress associated with osteoarthritis. Therefore, interpretation about the role of Runx1 could enlarge our understanding of key marker genes in the skeletal development and an increased understanding of Runx1 could be helpful to identify treatments for osteoarthritis. This review provides the most up-to-date advances in the roles and bio-mechanisms of Runx1 in healthy joints and osteoarthritis from all currently published articles and gives novel insights in therapeutic approaches to OA based on Runx1.
The RNA-binding protein Pcbp2 is widely expressed in the innate and adaptive immune systems and is essential for mouse development. To determine whether Pcbp2 is required for CD4+ T cell development and function, we derived mice with conditional Pcbp2 deletion in CD4+ T cells and assessed their overall phenotype and proliferative responses to activating stimuli. We found that Pcbp2 is essential for T conventional cell (Tconv) proliferation, working through regulation of co-stimulatory signaling. Pcbp2 deficiency in the CD4+ lineage did not impact Treg abundance in vivo or function in vitro. In addition, our data demonstrate a clear association between Pcbp2 control of Runx1 exon 6 splicing in CD4+ T cells and a specific role for Pcbp2 in the maintenance of peripheral CD4+ lymphocyte population size. Last, we show that Pcbp2 function is required for optimal in vivo Tconv cell activation in a T cell adoptive transfer colitis model system.
Early hematopoiesis is a continuous process in which hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) gradually differentiate toward specific lineages. Aging and myeloid malignant transformation are characterized by changes in the composition and regulation of HSPCs. In this study, we used single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to characterize an enriched population of human HSPCs obtained from young and elderly healthy individuals. Based on their transcriptional profile, we identified changes in the proportions of progenitor compartments during aging, and differences in their functionality, as evidenced by gene set enrichment analysis. Trajectory inference revealed that altered gene expression dynamics accompanied cell differentiation, which could explain aging-associated changes in hematopoiesis. Next, we focused on key regulators of transcription by constructing gene regulatory networks (GRNs) and detected regulons that were specifically active in elderly individuals. Using previous findings in healthy cells as a reference, we analyzed scRNA-seq data obtained from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and detected specific alterations of the expression dynamics of genes involved in erythroid differentiation in all patients with MDS such as TRIB2. In addition, the comparison between transcriptional programs and GRNs regulating normal HSPCs and MDS HSPCs allowed identification of regulons that were specifically active in MDS cases such as SMAD1, HOXA6, POU2F2, and RUNX1 suggesting a role of these transcription factors (TFs) in the pathogenesis of the disease. In summary, we demonstrate that the combination of single-cell technologies with computational analysis tools enable the study of a variety of cellular mechanisms involved in complex biological systems such as early hematopoiesis and can be used to dissect perturbed differentiation trajectories associated with perturbations such as aging and malignant transformation. Furthermore, the identification of abnormal regulatory mechanisms associated with myeloid malignancies could be exploited for personalized therapeutic approaches in individual patients.
Comment in    Blood. 2023 Mar 30;141(13):1509-1512.
Leucine-rich repeat containing 15 (LRRC15) has been identified as a contributing factor for cartilage damage in osteoarthritis; however, its involvement in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and the underlying mechanisms have not been well characterized. The purpose of this study was to explore the function of LRRC15 in RA-associated fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLS) and in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and to dissect the epigenetic mechanisms involved. LRRC15 was overexpressed in the synovial tissues of patients with RA, and LRRC15 overexpression was associated with increased proliferative, migratory, invasive, and angiogenic capacities of RA-FLS and accelerated release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. LRRC15 knockdown significantly inhibited synovial proliferation and reduced bone invasion and destruction in CIA mice. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) transcriptionally represses LRRC15 by binding to core-binding factor subunit beta (CBF-β). Overexpression of RUNX1 significantly inhibited the invasive phenotype of RA-FLS and suppressed the expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Conversely, the effects of RUNX1 were significantly reversed after overexpression of LRRC15 or inhibition of RUNX1-CBF-β interactions. Therefore, we demonstrated that RUNX1-mediated transcriptional repression of LRRC15 inhibited the development of RA, which may have therapeutic effects for RA patients.
Down syndrome (DS) is the most common autosomal aneuploidy caused by trisomy of chromosome 21. Previous studies demonstrated that DS affected mitochondrial functions, which may be associated with the abnormal development of the nervous system in patients with DS. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is an encoding gene located on chromosome 21. It has been reported that RUNX1 may affect cell apoptosis via the mitochondrial pathway. The present study investigated whether RUNX1 plays a critical role in mitochondrial dysfunction in DS and explored the mechanism by which RUNX1 affects mitochondrial functions. Expression of RUNX1 was detected in induced pluripotent stem cells of patients with DS (DS-iPSCs) and normal iPSCs (N-iPSCs), and the mitochondrial functions were investigated in the current study. Subsequently, RUNX1 was overexpressed in N-iPSCs and inhibited in DS-iPSCs. The mitochondrial functions were investigated thoroughly, including reactive oxygen species levels, mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP content and lysosomal activity. Finally, RNA-sequencing was used to explore the global expression pattern. It was observed that the expression levels of RUNX1 in DS-iPSCs were significantly higher than those in normal controls. Impaired mitochondrial functions were observed in DS-iPSCs. Of note, overexpression of RUNX1 in N-iPSCs resulted in mitochondrial dysfunction, while inhibition of RUNX1 expression could improve the mitochondrial function in DS-iPSCs. Global gene expression analysis indicated that overexpression of RUNX1 may promote the induction of apoptosis in DS-iPSCs by activating the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. The present findings indicate that abnormal expression of RUNX1 may play a critical role in mitochondrial dysfunction in DS-iPSCs.
Author information:(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Statistics,School of Public Health,Shaanxi University of Chinese Medicine,Xianyang,Shaanxi 712046,China.(2)Disease Control Division,Shaanxi Provincial Health Commission,Xi'an 710003,China.(3)Institute of Endemic Diseases,School of Public Health,Xi'an Jiaotong University,Xi'an 710061,China.(4)Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine,Xizang Minzu University,Xianyang,Shaanxi 712082,China.
Phosphodiesterase 5A (PDE5A) is involved in cGMP hydrolysis, regulating many physiological processes. Increased activity of PDE5A has been found in several pathological conditions, and the pharmacological inhibition of PDE5 has been demonstrated to have several therapeutic applications. We have identified the presence of three different Pde5a isoforms in cardiomyocytes, and we have found that the expression of specific Pde5a isoforms may have a causal role in the onset of pathological responses in these cells. In our previous study, we demonstrated that PDE5A inhibition could ameliorate muscular dystrophy by acting at different levels, as assessed by the altered genomic response of muscular cells following treatment with the PDE5A inhibitor tadalafil. Thus, considering the importance of PDE5A in various pathophysiological conditions, we further investigated the regulation of this enzyme. Here, we analysed the expression of Pde5a isoforms in the pathophysiology of skeletal muscle. We found that skeletal muscle tissues and myogenic cells express Pde5a1 and Pde5a2 isoforms, and we observed an increased expression of Pde5a1 in damaged skeletal muscles, while Pde5a2 levels remained unchanged. We also cloned and characterized the promoters that control the transcription of Pde5a isoforms, investigating which of the transcription factors predicted by bioinformatics analysis could be involved in their modulation. In conclusion, we found an overexpression of Pde5a1 in compromised muscle and identified an involvement of MyoD and Runx1 in Pde5a1 transcriptional activity.
The AML1-ETO (RUNX1-RUNX1T1) fusion gene created by the chromosome translocation t(8;21) (q21;q22) is one of the essential contributors to leukemogenesis. Only a few studies in the literature have focused on fusion gene-derived circular RNAs (f-circRNAs). Here, we report several AML1-ETO-related fusion circular RNAs (F-CircAEs) in AML1-ETO-positive cell lines and primary patient blasts. Functional studies demonstrate that the over-expression of F-CircAE in NIH3T3 cells promotes cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo. F-CircAE expression enhances the colony formation ability of c-Kit+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Meanwhile, the knockdown of endogenous F-CircAEs can inhibit the proliferation and colony formation ability of AML1-ETO-positive Kasumi-1 cells. Intriguingly, bioinformatic analysis revealed that the glycolysis pathway is down-regulated in F-CircAE-knockdown Kasumi-1 cells and up-regulated in F-CircAE over-expressed NIH3T3 cells. Further studies show that F-CircAE binds to the glycolytic protein ENO-1, up-regulates the expression level of glycolytic enzymes, and enhances lactate production. In summary, our study demonstrates that F-CircAE may exert biological activities on the growth of AML1-ETO leukemia cells by regulating the glycolysis pathway. Determining the role of F-CircAEs in AML1-ETO leukemia can lead to great strides in understanding its pathogenesis, thus providing new diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.
BACKGRUOUND: Evidence has revealed the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in modulating osteogenic differentiation, implying the promise of miRNA-based therapies for treating osteoporosis. This study investigated whether miR-181a-5p influences osteogenic differentiation and bone formation and aimed to establish the mechanisms in depth.METHODS: Clinical serum samples were obtained from osteoporosis patients, and MC3T3-E1 cells were treated with osteogenic induction medium (OIM) to induce osteogenic differentiation. miR-181a-5p-, Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1)-, and/or allograft inflammatory factor-1 (AIF-1)-associated oligonucleotides or vectors were transfected into MC3T3-E1 cells to explore their function in relation to the number of calcified nodules, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining and activity, expression levels of osteogenesis-related proteins, and apoptosis. Luciferase activity, RNA immunoprecipitation, and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays were employed to validate the binding relationship between miR-181a-5p and Runx1, and the transcriptional regulatory relationship between Runx1 and AIF-1. Ovariectomy (OVX)-induced mice were injected with a miR-181a-5p antagonist for in vivo verification.RESULTS: miR-181a-5p was highly expressed in the serum of osteoporosis patients. OIM treatment decreased miR-181a-5p and AIF-1 expression, but promoted Runx1 expression in MC3T-E1 cells. Meanwhile, upregulated miR-181a-5p suppressed OIM-induced increases in calcified nodules, ALP content, and osteogenesis-related protein expression. Mechanically, miR-181a-5p targeted Runx1, which acted as a transcription factor to negatively modulate AIF-1 expression. Downregulated Runx1 suppressed the miR-181a-5p inhibitor-mediated promotion of osteogenic differentiation, and downregulated AIF-1 reversed the miR-181a-5p mimic-induced inhibition of osteogenic differentiation. Tail vein injection of a miR-181a-5p antagonist induced bone formation in OVX-induced osteoporotic mice.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, miR-181a-5p affects osteogenic differentiation and bone formation partially via the modulation of the Runx1/AIF-1 axis.
Establishing metabolic programming begins during fetal and postnatal development, and early-life lipid exposures play a critical role during neonatal adipogenesis. We define how neonatal consumption of a low omega-6 to -3 fatty acid ratio (n6/n3 FA ratio) establishes FA oxidation in adipocyte precursor cells (APCs) before they become adipocytes. In vivo, APCs isolated from mouse pups exposed to the low n6/n3 FA ratio had superior FA oxidation capacity, elevated beige adipocyte mRNAs Ppargc1α, Ucp2, and Runx1, and increased nuclear receptor NR2F2 protein. In vitro, APC treatment with NR2F2 ligand-induced beige adipocyte mRNAs and increased mitochondrial potential but not mass. Single-cell RNA-sequencing analysis revealed low n6/n3 FA ratio yielded more mitochondrial-high APCs and linked APC NR2F2 levels with beige adipocyte signatures and FA oxidation. Establishing beige adipogenesis is of clinical relevance, because fat depots with energetically active, smaller, and more numerous adipocytes improve metabolism and delay metabolic dysfunction.
The Chinese forest musk deer (FMD; Moschus berezovskii) is an endangered artiodactyl mammal. Musk secreted by the musk gland of male has extremely high economic and medicinal value. However, the molecular and cellular characteristics of the musk gland have not been studied. Here, we investigated the diversity and transcriptional composition of musk gland cell types and the effect of cell type-specific chromatin accessibility on gene expression using single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) and single-nucleus ATAC sequencing (snATAC-seq) association analysis. Based on uniform manifold approximation and projection (UMAP) analysis, we identified 13 cell types from the musk gland, which included two different acinar cells (cluster 0 and cluster 10). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis indicated that many pathways related to musk secretion were enriched in acinar cells. Our analysis also revealed acinar cell core transcription factors and core target genes, and further constructed acinar cell-specific regulatory networks. In cluster 0, 11 core target genes (Nedd4l, Adcy9, Akr1c1, Vapb, Me1, Acsl1, Acss3, Srd5a1, Scnn1a, Acadm, and Nceh1) possibly related to musk secretion were regulated by 24 core transcription factors (SP3, NFIC, NR6A1, EHF, RUNX1, TFAP2A, RREB1, GRHL2, NFIB, ELF1, MAX, KLF5, REL, HES1, POU2F3, TFDP1, NR2C1, ATF7, MEIS1, NR4A2, NFIA, PBX1, ZNF652, and NFKB1). In cluster 10, four core target genes (Akr1c1, Pcca, Atp1b1, and Sgk1) possibly related to musk secretion were regulated by 10 core transcription factors (BARX2, EHF, PBX1, RUNX1, NFIB, FOXP1, KLF3, KLF6, ETV6, and NR3C2). Moreover, the credibility of snRNA-seq and snATAC-seq data was verified by fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Finally, cell communication analysis demonstrated that the two types of acinar cells mainly have communications in musk secretion-related processes. In conclusion, we provided important insights and invaluable resources for the molecular and cellular characteristics of the musk gland, which will lay a foundation for the study of musk secretion mechanism in the future.
BACKGROUND: ETNK1 mutation has been suggested as a useful tool to support the diagnosis of atypical chronic myeloid leukemia. ETNK1 mutations, however, occur in other myeloid neoplasms.METHODS: The authors assessed the clinicopathologic and molecular genetic features of 80 ETNK1-mutated myeloid neoplasms.RESULTS: Thirty-seven neoplasms (46%) were classified as myelodysplastic syndrome, 17 (21%) were classified as myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasm, 14 (18%) were classified as acute myeloid leukemia, and 12 (15%) were classified as myeloproliferative neoplasm. ETNK1 mutations were detected at the first test in 96% of patients, suggesting that ETNK1 mutation is an early event in pathogenesis. ETNK1 mutations represented the dominant clone in 63% of patients and was persistently dominant in 93%. The variant allele frequencies were usually higher in acute myeloid leukemia and increased upon leukemic transformation. ETNK1 mutation was accompanied by coexisting mutations in all patients, with ASXL1 (50%), TET2 (25%), EZH2 (24%), RUNX1 (24%), and SRSF2 (24%) mutations being the most common. Neoplasms with ETNK1 mutations were associated with morphologic dysplasia, increased blasts, myelofibrosis, and noncomplex karyotypes. With a median follow-up of 16.5 months, 30 patients died, 44 had persistent disease, and four achieved complete remission after stem cell transplantation.CONCLUSIONS: ETNK1 mutation is present in various myeloid neoplasms, often as an early event and a dominant clone and always with concurrent mutations. It may play an important role in the pathogenesis and progression of myeloid neoplasms by causing DNA damage and inducing other mutations and genomic instability, and it may serve as a potential therapeutic target. ETNK1 mutation is not disease-specific and should be interpreted with caution to classify myeloid neoplasms.
BACKGROUND/AIM: T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is a rare malignancy characterized by proliferation of early T-cell precursors that replace normal hematopoietic cells. T-ALL cells carry non-random chromosome aberrations, fusion genes, and gene mutations, often of prognostic significance. We herein report the genetic findings in cells from a T-ALL patient.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Bone marrow cells from a patient with T-ALL were examined using G-banding, array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH), RNA sequencing, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), Sanger sequencing, and fluorescence in situ hybridization.RESULTS: G-banding revealed del(1)(p34), add(5)(q14), trisomy 8, and monosomy 21 in the leukemic cells. aCGH detected the gross unbalances inferred from the karyotyping results, except that heterozygous loss of chromosome 21 did not include its distal part; 21q22.12-q22.3 was undeleted. In addition, aCGH detected a submicroscopic interstitial 7.56 Mbp deletion in the q arm of chromosome 19 from 19q13.2 to 19q13.33. RNA sequencing detected and RT-PCR/Sanger sequencing confirmed the presence of two novel chimeras, MYCBP::EHD2 and RUNX1::ZNF780A. They were generated from rearrangements involving subbands 1p34.3 (MYCBP), 19q13.2 (ZNF780A), 19q13.33 (EHD2), and 21q22.12 (RUNX1), i.e., at the breakpoints of chromosomal deletions.CONCLUSION: The leukemic cells showed the heterozygous loss of many genes as well as the generation of MYCBP::EHD2 and RUNX1::ZNF780A chimeras. Because the partner genes in the chimeras were found at the breakpoints of the chromosomal deletions, we believe that both the heterozygous losses and the generation of the two chimeras occurred simultaneously, and that they were pathogenetically important.
Inherited thrombocytopenia (IT) is a heterogeneous group of diseases with a genetic origin. The primary symptom presented by patients is a reduced platelet count in the peripheral blood. Nevertheless, certain forms of IT are characterized by the occurrence of other congenital malformations or predisposition to acquire additional diseases. Five related subjects with lifelong thrombocytopenia were admitted to our clinic. A total of 16 cases of persistent thrombocytopenia were investigated in the family history. Molecular and cytogenetic analysis covered MECOM, MPL, RUNX1, ETV6, and GATA1 genes, whose mutations are known to cause predisposing forms of IT. The laboratory testing revealed thrombocytopenia ranging from 19 to 65 × 109/L in the subjects. Mild bleeding symptoms were present in each of the subjects, while two of five had a history of severe hemorrhage requiring transfusion of blood products. Establishing a diagnosis of IT protects the patient from unnecessary treatment and enables the appropriate surveillance.
Malignant rhabdoid tumor (MRT) is a highly aggressive pediatric malignancy with no effective therapy. Therefore, it is necessary to identify a target for the development of novel molecule-targeting therapeutic agents. In this study, we report the importance of the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and RUNX1-Baculoviral IAP (inhibitor of apoptosis) Repeat-Containing 5 (BIRC5/survivin) axis in the proliferation of MRT cells, as it can be used as an ideal target for anti-tumor strategies. The mechanism of this reaction can be explained by the interaction of RUNX1 with the RUNX1-binding DNA sequence located in the survivin promoter and its positive regulation. Specific knockdown of RUNX1 led to decreased expression of survivin, which subsequently suppressed the proliferation of MRT cells in vitro and in vivo. We also found that our novel RUNX inhibitor, Chb-M, which switches off RUNX1 using alkylating agent-conjugated pyrrole-imidazole polyamides designed to specifically bind to consensus RUNX-binding sequences (5'-TGTGGT-3'), inhibited survivin expression in vivo. Taken together, we identified a novel interaction between RUNX1 and survivin in MRT. Therefore the negative regulation of RUNX1 activity may be a novel strategy for MRT treatment.
OBJECTIVE: Evidence suggests that ETV6/RUNX1 translocation in pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia shows geographical variation. Therefore, the present study aimed at unveiling the incidence of ETV6/RUNX1 fusion in pediatric acute lymphocytic leukemia cases of this region using fluorescent in-situ hybridization. Besides, we aimed to determine the incidence of MLL gene rearrangement and the pattern of chromosomal abnormalities in this study group.METHODS: Samples from 57 acute lymphocytic leukemia cases of pediatric age group were subjected to fluorescent in-situ hybridization and conventional cytogenetic analysis using standard methods.RESULTS: Conventional cytogenetic analysis revealed chromosomal abnormalities in 19.3% cases. The other major chromosomal abnormalities reported were monosomies in 10.5%, hypodiploidy in 7%, marker chromosomes in 3.5% and deletions in 3.5% cases. We found a 44,XX,-7,-18, r(5), i(17q) complex karyotype in one of the cases. Fluorescent in-situ hybridization analysis revealed ETV6/RUNX1 translocation to be present in 28.07% cases and MLL gene rearrangement in 3.5% cases. 12.5% of ETV6/RUNX1 fusion positive cases were found to have a loss of ETV6 allele. Besides, 8.8% cases were found to exhibit a signal pattern suggestive of RUNX1 amplification. ETV6 gene deletion and MLL gene amplification was detected in 3.5% cases each, of our study.CONCLUSIONS: Frequency of ETV6/RUNX1 fusion oncogene was found to be higher in pediatric ALL cases of Kashmir region as compared to that reported from other parts of India. Besides, a case was found to have a karyotype viz 44,XX,-7,-18, r(5), i(17q) that has not been reported elsewhere in the childhood ALL.
Acute myocardial infarction is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Although timely reperfusion could attenuate myocardial ischemia injury and reduce mortality, it causes severe secondary injury to the myocardium known as myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury (MIRI) with unmet clinical needs. Emodin has a protective effect on MIRI in rodents. However, the precise mechanism underlying its pharmacological effect remains poorly understood. Accordingly, the present study used mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) sequencing based on MIRI mouse models to determine the mechanism involved. Emodin was found to prevent MIRI and attenuate the inflammation of myocardium in the MIRI model. In addition, by using an interdisciplinary approach, the present study uncovered that emodin suppressed the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), which is a transcription factor of miR-142-3p, in either MIRI or the hypoxia/reoxygenation injury model. Furthermore, miR-142-3p can negatively regulate dopamine receptor D2 (DRD2), which acted as an anti-inflammatory factor to suppress NF-κB-dependent inflammation and prevent MIRI. These results were demonstrated by both cellular hypoxia/reoxygenation and mouse MIRI models. Overall, the present study provided an unrevealed molecular mechanism for emodin function. Emodin could inhibit NF-κB-triggered inflammation in MIRI by regulating the RUNX1/miR-142-3p/DRD2 pathway. Therefore, the RUNX1/miR-142-3p/DRD2 pathway presented a novel target for MIRI treatment, and the application of emodin in clinical practice may improve the treatment of MIRI.
The holothurian Eupentacta fraudatrix is capable of fully restoring its muscles after transverse dissection. Although the regeneration of these structures is well studied at the cellular level, the molecular basis of the process remains poorly understood. To identify genes that may be involved in the regulation of muscle regeneration, the transcriptome of the longitudinal muscle band of E. fraudatrix has been sequenced at different time periods post-injury. An analysis of the map of biological processes and pathways has shown that most genes associated with myogenesis decrease their expression during the regeneration. The only exception is the genes united by the GO term "heart valve development". This may indicate the antiquity of mechanisms of mesodermal structure transformation, which was co-opted into various morphogeneses in deuterostomes. Two groups of genes that play a key role in the regeneration have been analyzed: transcription factors and matrix metalloproteinases. A total of six transcription factor genes (Ef-HOX5, Ef-ZEB2, Ef-RARB, Ef-RUNX1, Ef-SOX17, and Ef-ZNF318) and seven matrix metalloproteinase genes (Ef-MMP11, Ef-MMP13, Ef-MMP13-1, Ef-MMP16-2, Ef-MMP16-3, Ef-MMP24, and Ef-MMP24-1) showing differential expression during myogenesis have been revealed. The identified genes are assumed to be involved in the muscle regeneration in holothurians.
BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is characterized by the presence of more than or equal to 20% lymphoblast (early lymphoid precursors) in peripheral blood and/or in bone marrow. Lymphoblast can infiltrate different organs and clinically patients can present with fatigue, pallor, fever, bone pain, bleeding or bruises and lymphadenopathy. ALL is the most common type of malignancy in children. To determine the cytogenetic abnormalities in patients of Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia as a predictor of response to induction chemotherapy. It was a descriptive cross-sectional study.METHODS: This study was conducted at the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, Rawalpindi over a period of six months from June to November 2019. Bone marrow and peripheral blood samples of newly diagnosed 80 patients of all the age groups and either gender, who received one month treatment for ALL,were analyzed for cytogenetic study. Patients who were previously diagnosed with ALL, who presented with relapse and those who required induction treatment outside the trial hospital were excluded. UK ALL 2011 treatment protocol was adopted for patients up to 25 years old and for patients above 25years old UK ALL 2014 treatment protocol as induction chemotherapy was adopted. Evaluation for remission was carried out at the termination of initial induction chemotherapy on day 29 of treatment.RESULTS: A total of 80 patients were enrolled in the study, comprising 36 (45%) females & 44 (55%) males. The median age of paediatric patients was 5years (<19 years) who were 56/80 (70%) in number whereas the median age of adults was 27 years (>19 years) who constituted 24/80 (30%) of the participants. Cytogenetic of 51 (63.75%) patients revealed hyperdiploidy (chromosome number 51-66) whereas 29(36.25%) of the participants had miscellaneous mutations [(Hypodiploidy, t (9; 22), t (1; 19) and t (12; 21)]. On immunophenotyping 51/80 (63.7%) of the leukemias were of B cell origin and 29 (36.25%) of T-cell origin.CONCLUSION: Patients with hyperdiploidy, t (12;21) ETV6/RUNX1 and t(1;19)TCF3/PBX1 had better prognosis and higher remission rate compared to those with the other mutations like t(9;22)Ph+ and hypodiploid which were associated with poor prognosis. Association of gender with remission was not statistically significant.
Incorporating genetics into risk-stratification for treatment of childhood B-progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) has contributed significantly to improved survival. In about 30% B-ALL (B-other-ALL) without well-established chromosomal changes, new genetic subtypes have recently emerged, yet their true prognostic relevance largely remains unclear. We integrated next generation sequencing (NGS): whole genome sequencing (WGS) (n = 157) and bespoke targeted NGS (t-NGS) (n = 175) (overlap n = 36), with existing genetic annotation in a representative cohort of 351 B-other-ALL patients from the childhood ALL trail, UKALL2003. PAX5alt was most frequently observed (n = 91), whereas PAX5 P80R mutations (n = 11) defined a distinct PAX5 subtype. DUX4-r subtype (n = 80) was defined by DUX4 rearrangements and/or ERG deletions. These patients had a low relapse rate and excellent survival. ETV6::RUNX1-like subtype (n = 21) was characterised by multiple abnormalities of ETV6 and IKZF1, with no reported relapses or deaths, indicating their excellent prognosis in this trial. An inferior outcome for patients with ABL-class fusions (n = 25) was confirmed. Integration of NGS into genomic profiling of B-other-ALL within a single childhood ALL trial, UKALL2003, has shown the added clinical value of NGS-based approaches, through improved accuracy in detection and classification into the range of risk stratifying genetic subtypes, while validating their prognostic significance.
DOI: 10.3343/alm.2023.43.3.315PMCID: PMC9791011PMID: 36544347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
OBJECTIVE: Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) has been proven to be over-expressed and vital in many malignancies. However, its role in cervical cancer is still unclear.METHODS: Some online databases (Oncomine, GEPIA, UALCAN, LinkedOmics, and others) were used to explore the expression level, prognostic significance, and gene mutation characteristics of RUNX1 in cervical cancer. The protein levels of RUNX1 in cervical cancer were measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC). The functional changes of cervical cancer cells were measured in vitro after decreasing RUNX1.RESULTS: Bioinformatic results revealed that RUNX1 was upregulated in cervical cancer compared to normal tissues. Moreover, over-expression of RUNX1 was significantly correlated with cervical cancer patients' clinical parameters (e.g., individual cancer stages, patients' age, nodal metastasis status, and others). Meanwhile, functional enrichment analysis of RUNX1-related genes indicated that RUNX1 was mainly involved in the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) process in cervical cancer. Furthermore, RUNX1 may be upregulated by hsamiR-616-5p and hsa-miR-766 identified by miRDB, TargetScan, and miRWalk. Finally, RUNX1 was upregulated in cervical cancer compared to normal tissues by IHC in collected cervical cancer samples. The invasion and migration abilities of cervical cancer cells were significantly reduced by repressing EMT after knocking down RUNX1 in vitro.CONCLUSION: RUNX1 was highly expressed in cervical cancer, and upregulated RUNX1 could significantly promote the invasive abilities of cervical cancer cells by inducing EMT. Therefore, RUNX1 may be a potential biomarker for early diagnosis and targeted therapy of cervical cancer.
EZH2 mutations in myeloid neoplasms are loss of function type, and have been linked to poor overall survival (OS) in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). However, the specific determinants of outcomes in EZH2-mutant (mut) MDS are not well characterized. In this single-center retrospective study, clinical and genomic data were collected on 1774 patients with MDS treated at Moffitt Cancer Center. In our cohort, 83 (4.7%) patients had a pathogenic EZH2 mutation. Patients with EZH2mut MDS were older than EZH2-wild type (wt) group (median age- 72 vs. 69 years, p = 0.010). The most common co-occurring mutation in EZH2mut MDS was ASXL1, with a significantly higher frequency than EZH2wt (54% vs. 19%, p < 0.001). Patients with EZH2mut MDS had lower response rates to hypomethylating agents compared to EZH2wt MDS (26% vs. 39%; p = 0.050). Median OS of patients with EZH2mut MDS was 30.8 months, with a significantly worse OS than EZH2wt group (35.5 vs. 61.2 months, p = 0.003) in the lower-risk IPSS-R categories. Among patients with EZH2mut MDS, co-presence of ASXL1 or RUNX1 mutations was associated with inferior median OS compared to their wt counterparts (26.8 vs. 48.7 months, p = 0.031). Concurrent chromosome 7 abnormalities (12%) were also associated with significantly worse OS (median OS- 20.8 vs. 35.5 months, p = 0.002) in EZH2mut MDS. Future clinical trials should explore the potential role of novel targeted therapies in improving outcomes in patients with EZH2mut MDS.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are often found in eukaryocyte and have a role in the pathogenesis of a variety of human disorders. Our related research has shown the differential expression of circRNAs in periprosthetic osteolysis (PPOL). However, the involvement of circRNAs in the exact process is yet unknown. CircSLC8A1 expression was evaluated in clinical samples and human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) in this investigation using quantitative real-time PCR. In vitro and in vivo studies were conducted to explicate its functional role and pathway. We demonstrated CircSLC8A1 is involved in PPOL using gain- and loss-of-function methods. The association of CircSLC8A1 and miR-144-3p, along with miR-144-3p and RUNX1, was predicted using bioinformatics. RNA pull-down and luciferase assays confirmed it. The impact of CircSLC8A1 in the PPOL-mouse model was also investigated using adeno-associated virus. CircSLC8A1 was found to be downregulated in PPOL patients' periprosthetic tissues. Overexpression of CircSLC8A1 promoted osteogenic differentiation (OD) and inhibited apoptosis of hBMSCs in vitro. The osteogenic markers of RUNX1, osteopontin (OPN) and osteocalcin (OCN) were significantly upregulated in hBMSCs after miR-144-3p inhibitor was transferred. Mechanistic analysis demonstrated that CircSLC8A1 directly bound to miR-144-3p and participated in PPOL through the miR-144-3p/RUNX1 pathway in hBMSCs. Micro-CT and quantitative analysis showed that CircSLC8A1 markedly inhibited PPOL, and osteogenic markers (RUNX1, OPN and OCN) were significantly increased (P<0.05) in the mice model. Our findings prove that CircSLC8A1 exerted a regulatory role in promoting osteogenic differentiation in hBMSCs, and CircSLC8A1/miR-144-3p/RUNX1 pathway may provide a potential target for prevention of PPOL.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this literature review is to summarize and provide a brief overview of our current understanding of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and the role of stem cell transplantation (SCT) in its management.BACKGROUND: AML is a malignant hematological disorder that is characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of myeloid blood cells. This disease has been associated with various risk factors such as ionizing radiation, cigarette smoke, pesticides/herbicides, and chemotherapy. SCT remains the most beneficial treatment for medically fit AML patients due to superior survival outcomes.METHODS: A thorough search was conducted on PubMed, Scopus, ClinicalTrials.gov, Embase and Web of Science using related keywords. Current articles on the uses of stem cell therapy in AML patients were selected.CONCLUSIONS: Long term exposure to ionizing radiation and other harmful substances such as benzene, cigarette smoke and chemotherapeutic drugs plays an important role in AML carcinogenesis. Mutations in certain genes (e.g., ASXL1, RUNX1, KIT, TP53, BCR-ABL1) seem to accelerate the process as they affect normal cellular proliferation and cell death. These events may give rise to a small subpopulation of leukemic stem cells (LSC) which continuously sustain tumor development and growth. Patients who are deemed to be medically "fit" should receive an allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) due to improved overall survival (OS) (~50%) and decreased relapsed risk (32% vs. 59%). Several studies have revealed that the medically "unfit" may benefit from more conventional agents such as azacytidine, decitabine, venetoclax or sorafenib.
Comment on    Blood Cancer Discov. 2022 Nov 7;:
BACKGROUND: This study analyzed data from two consecutive protocols for children newly diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) to determine the clinical impact of minimal/measurable residual disease (MRD) and recently identified tumor genetic subtypes.METHODS: Genetic subtypes were determined by sequential approaches including DNA indexing, reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification, and RNA-sequencing. MRD was assessed by flow cytometry. The Taiwan Pediatric Oncology Group TPOG-ALL-2013 study enrolled patients who received MRD-directed therapy.RESULTS: The 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival rates in the 2013 cohort were 77.8% and 86.9% compared to those of the 2002 cohort, which were 62.4% and 76.5%. Among patients treated with MRD-guided therapy, those with ETV6-RUNX1 fusion and high hyperdiploidy had the highest 5-year EFS (91.4% and 89.6%, respectively). The addition of dasatinib improved outcomes in patients with BCR-ABL1 ALL. Recently identified subtypes like DUX4-rearranged, ZNF384-rearranged, MEF2D-rearranged, and PAX5alt subtypes were frequently positive for MRD after remission induction, and these patients consequently received intensified chemotherapy. Treatment intensification according to the MRD improved the outcomes of patients presenting DUX4 rearrangements. In high-risk or very-high-risk subtypes, the TPOG-ALL-2013 regimen did not confer significant improvements compared to TPOG-ALL-2002, and the outcomes of BCR-ABL1-like, MEF2D-rearranged, and KMT2A-rearranged ALL subtypes (in addition to those of T-cell ALL) were not sufficiently good. Novel agents or approaches are needed to improve the outcomes for these patients.CONCLUSIONS: The TPOG-ALL-2013 study yielded outcomes superior to those of patients treated in the preceding TPOG-ALL-2002 study. This study provides important data to inform the design of future clinical trials in Taiwan.PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: MRD-directed therapy improved the outcomes for pediatric ALL, especially standard-risk patients. Genomic analyses and MRD might be used together for risk-directed therapy of childhood ALL. Our work provides important data to inform the design of future clinical trials in Taiwan.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting BCR::ABL1 have turned chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML) from a fatal disease into a manageable condition for most patients. Despite improved survival, targeting drug-resistant leukaemia stem cells (LSCs) remains a challenge for curative CML therapy. Aberrant lipid metabolism can have a large impact on membrane dynamics, cell survival and therapeutic responses in cancer. While ceramide and sphingolipid levels were previously correlated with TKI response in CML, the role of lipid metabolism in TKI resistance is not well understood. We have identified downregulation of a critical regulator of lipid metabolism, G0/G1 switch gene 2 (G0S2), in multiple scenarios of TKI resistance, including (1) BCR::ABL1 kinase-independent TKI resistance, (2) progression of CML from the chronic to the blast phase of the disease, and (3) in CML versus normal myeloid progenitors. Accordingly, CML patients with low G0S2 expression levels had a worse overall survival. G0S2 downregulation in CML was not a result of promoter hypermethylation or BCR::ABL1 kinase activity, but was rather due to transcriptional repression by MYC. Using CML cell lines, patient samples and G0s2 knockout (G0s2-/- ) mice, we demonstrate a tumour suppressor role for G0S2 in CML and TKI resistance. Our data suggest that reduced G0S2 protein expression in CML disrupts glycerophospholipid metabolism, correlating with a block of differentiation that renders CML cells resistant to therapy. Altogether, our data unravel a new role for G0S2 in regulating myeloid differentiation and TKI response in CML, and suggest that restoring G0S2 may have clinical utility.
Mutations in the gene Additional Sex-Combs Like 1 (ASXL1) are recurrent in myeloid malignancies as well as the pre-malignant condition clonal hematopoiesis, where they are universally associated with poor prognosis. However, the role of ASXL1 in myeloid lineage maturation is incompletely described. To define the role of ASXL1 in myelopoiesis, we employed single cell RNA sequencing and a murine model of hematopoietic-specific Asxl1 deletion. In granulocyte progenitors, Asxl1 deletion leads to hyperactivation of MYC and a quantitative decrease in neutrophil production. This loss of granulocyte production was not accompanied by significant changes in the landscape of covalent histone modifications. However, Asxl1 deletion results in a decrease in RNAPII promoter-proximal pausing in granulocyte progenitors, indicative of a global increase in productive transcription. These results suggest that ASXL1 inhibits productive transcription in granulocyte progenitors, identifying a new role for this epigenetic regulator in myeloid development.
Erratum in    Discov Oncol. 2023 Apr 26;14(1):50.
Inherited thrombocytopenias (ITs) are genetic diseases characterized by low platelet count, possibly associated with congenital defects or predisposition to develop additional conditions. Next generation sequencing has consistently improved our knowledge of ITs, with >40 genes identified so far, but obtaining a molecular diagnosis remains a challenge especially for patients with non-syndromic forms, having no clinical or functional phenotypes that raise suspicion on specific genes. We performed exome sequencing (ES) in a cohort of 116 IT patients (89 families), still undiagnosed after a previously validated phenotype-driven diagnostic algorithm including a targeted analysis of suspected genes. ES achieved a diagnostic yield of 36%, with a gain of 16% over the diagnostic algorithm. This can be explained by genetic heterogeneity and unspecific genotype-phenotype relationships that make the simultaneous analysis of all the genes, enabled by ES, the most reasonable strategy. Furthermore, ES disentangled situations that had been puzzled by atypical inheritance, sex-related effects or false negative laboratory results. Finally, ES-based Copy Number Variant (CNV) analysis disclosed an unexpected high prevalence of RUNX1 deletions, predisposing to hematological malignancies. Our findings demonstrate that ES, including CNV analysis, can substantially contribute to the diagnosis of IT and can solve diagnostic problems that would otherwise remain a challenge.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is driven by numerous molecular events that contribute to disease progression. Herein, we identify hnRNP K overexpression as a recurrent abnormality in AML that negatively correlates with patient survival. Overexpression of hnRNP K in murine fetal liver cells results in altered self-renewal and differentiation potential. Further, murine transplantation models reveal that hnRNP K overexpression results in myeloproliferation in vivo. Mechanistic studies expose a direct functional relationship between hnRNP K and RUNX1-a master transcriptional regulator of hematopoiesis often dysregulated in leukemia. Molecular analyses show that overexpression of hnRNP K results in an enrichment of an alternatively spliced isoform of RUNX1 lacking exon 4. Our work establishes hnRNP K's oncogenic potential in influencing myelogenesis through its regulation of RUNX1 splicing and subsequent transcriptional activity.
Several cases such as myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) with the coexistence of JAK2 and BCR-ABL have been reported. However, cases of transformation of essential thrombocythemia (ET) into chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) during the disease progression were rarely reported. Here, we report the case of a patient with JAK2 V617F- positive ET who subsequently acquired BCR-ABL1, which transformed the disease into CML after 10 years from the initial diagnosis. In this study, we dynamically monitored JAK2 V617F and BCR-ABL and observed multiple gene mutations, including IDH2, IDH1, ASXL1, KRAS, and RUNX1. It is important to be aware of this potentially clone evolution in disease progression.
Deer antlers are the only mammalian organs that can fully regenerate after being lost and provide a valuable model for cartilage development. As one of the best-studied epigenetic mechanisms, DNA methylation is known to engage in organ and tissue development. This study aimed to investigate the role of DNA methylation in antler chondrogenesis by comparing whole-genome DNA methylation between precartilage and cartilage. Quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) showed significant differences in the expression levels of DNA methyltransferase genes (DNMT1, DNMT3A, and DNMT3B) between precartilage and cartilage. Subsequently, we obtained DNA methylation profiles of antler precartilage and cartilage tissues by whole-genome bisulfite sequencing. Although sequencing data indicated that overall methylation levels at CpG and non-CpG sites were similar between precartilage and cartilage, 140,784 differentially methylated regions (DMRs, P < 0.05) and 3,941 DMR-related genes were identified. Gene ontology (GO) analysis of DMR-related genes demonstrated some significantly enriched GO terms (P < 0.05) related to chondrogenesis, including insulin receptor binding, collage trimer, integrin binding, and extracellular matrix structural constituent. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis of DMR-related genes uncovered that the PI3K/AKT, cortisol synthesis and secretion, glycosaminoglycan biosynthesis-keratan sulfate, Hippo, and NF-κB signaling pathways might play a pivotal role in the transition of precartilage to cartilage. Moreover, we found that 25 DMR-related genes, including CD44, IGF1, ITGAV, ITGB1, RUNX1, COL2A1, COMP, and TAGLN, were most likely involved in antler chondrogenesis. In conclusion, this study revealed the genome-wide DNA methylation patterns of antler precartilage and cartilage, which may contribute to understanding the epigenetic regulation of antler chondrogenesis.
Pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is associated with various specific cytogenetic and molecular markers that significantly influence treatment and prognosis. Intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21) defines a rare distinct cytogenetic subgroup of childhood B-ALL, which is characterized by amplification of region 21q22.12 comprising the RUNX1 gene. Constitutional structural chromosomal abnormalities involving chromosome 21 confer an increased risk for B-ALL with iAMP21. Here, we report the development of B-ALL with iAMP21 in a 9-year-old child with a constitutional ring chromosome 21, r(21)c, uncovered after B-ALL diagnosis. Cytogenetic and microarray analysis of the post-therapy sample revealed an abnormal chromosome 21 lacking a satellite and having a deletion of the terminal 22q22.3 region, consistent with a constitutional ring chromosome 21, r(21)(p11.2q22). On a retrospective analysis, this ring chromosome was observed in the normal cells in the pre-treatment diagnostic specimen. Constitutional ring chromosome 21 may remain undetected in patients with mild or no neurodevelopmental phenotype, posing an unknown lifelong risk of developing B-ALL with iAMP21. Individuals with constitutional structural chromosome 21 rearrangements such as ring 21 require a close surveillance and long-term follow-up studies to establish their risk of B-ALL relapse and possibility of developing other malignancies. Germline analysis is recommended to all pediatric patients with iAMP21-related B-ALL to rule out structural chromosome 21 rearrangements and to elucidate molecular mechanisms of iAMP21 formation.
Long-term exposure to arsenic may induce several human cancers, including non-melanoma skin cancer. The tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-3, encoded by the TIMP3 gene, may inhibit tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis of several cancer types. In this study, we aimed to investigate effects of the TIMP3 -1296 T > C (rs9619311) and -915 A > G (rs2234921) single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on skin cancer risk in an arsenic-exposed population, and to evaluate the influence of allele-specific changes by an in silico analysis. In total, 1078 study participants were followed up for a median of 15 years for newly diagnosed skin cancer. New cases were identified through linkage to the National Cancer Registry of Taiwan. A Cox regression analysis was used to evaluate the effects of TIMP3 variants. Transcription factor (TF) profiling of binding sites of allele-specific changes in SNPs was conducted using the JASPAR scan tool. We observed borderline associations between TIMP3 genotypes and skin cancer risk. However, when combined with high arsenic exposure levels, the rs9619311 C allele, rs2234921 G allele, or C-G haplotype groups exhibited a greater risk of developing skin cancer compared to the respective common homozygous genotype group. The in silico analysis revealed several TF motifs located at or flanking the two SNP sites. We validated that the C allele of rs9619311 attenuated the binding affinity of BACH2, MEIS2, NFE2L2, and PBX2 to the TIMP3 promoter, and that the G allele of rs2234921 reduced the affinity of E2F8 and RUNX1 to bind to the promoter. Our findings suggest significant modifications of the effect of the association between arsenic exposure and skin cancer risk by the TIMP3 rs9619311 and rs2234921 variants. The predicted TFs and their differential binding affinities to the TIMP3 promoter provide insights into how TIMP3 interacts with arsenic through TFs in skin cancer formation.
Comment in    Blood. 2023 Mar 9;141(10):1095-1096.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a myeloproliferative neoplasm caused by the BCR::ABL1 fusion gene, which aberrantly activates ABL1 kinase and promotes the overproduction of leukemic cells. CML typically develops in the chronic phase (CP) and progresses to a blast crisis (BC) after years without effective treatment. Although prognosis has substantially improved after the development of tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting the BCR::ABL1 oncoprotein, some patients still experience TKI resistance and poor prognosis. One of the mechanisms of TKI resistance is ABL1 kinase domain mutations, which are found in approximately half of the cases, newly acquired during treatment. Moreover, genetic studies have revealed that CML patients carry additional mutations that are also observed in other myeloid neoplasms. ASXL1 mutations are often found in both CP and BC, whereas other mutations, such as those in RUNX1, IKZF1, and TP53, are preferentially found in BC. The presence of additional mutations, such as ASXL1 mutations, is a potential biomarker for predicting therapeutic efficacy. The mechanisms by which these additional mutations affect disease subtypes, drug resistance, and prognosis need to be elucidated. In this review, we have summarized and discussed the landscape and clinical impact of genetic abnormalities in CML.
Author information:(1)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, Chengdu Women's and Children's Central Hospital, Chengdu 610091, Sichuan Province, China,Department of Hematology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400014, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400014, China,Department of Pediatrics, Chengdu Children Special Hospital, Chengdu 610015, Sichuan Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400014, China,E-mail: tomahawk6502@sohu.com.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology,Hebei General Hospital, Shijiazhuang 050051, Hebei Province, China.(2)Department of Vascular Surgery,Hebei General Hospital, Shijiazhuang 050051, Hebei Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology,Hebei General Hospital, Shijiazhuang 050051, Hebei Province, China,E-mail: doclijie@163.com.
Author information:(1)School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212000, Jiangsu Province, China; Department of Clinical Laboratory, Changzhou No.2 People's Hospital, the Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Changzhou No.2 People's Hospital, the Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu Province, China.(3)Department of Hematology, Wuxi No.2 People's Hospital, Wuxi 214000, Jiangsu Province, China.(4)School of Medicine, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212000, Jiangsu Province, China. E-mail: xiaochun@ujs.edu.cn.
CXCR4 antagonists sensitize FLT3/ITD+ AML cells to FLT3 inhibitors; however, CXCR4 signaling can induce apoptosis in AML cells, raising the question of whether CXCR4 signaling exerts divergent effects on FLT3/ITD+ cells. The present study investigated the paradoxical function of CXCR4 in resistance to FLT3 inhibitors. The FLT3 inhibitor quizartinib significantly decreased the number of FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 cells, whereas 1 ng/ml CXCL12 showed a significant protective effect against quizartinib. In contrast, CXCL12 over 100 ng/ml significantly decreased FLT3/ITD+ cell viability with concomitant downregulation of Runx1. Moreover, the survival of FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 or MOLM13 cells with low surface CXCR4 expression incubated with quizartinib was significantly enhanced by 100 ng/ml CXCL12; however, this protective effect of CXCL12 against quizartinib was barely detected in cells with high surface CXCR4 expression. Although silencing Runx1 downregulated CXCR4 expression, RUNX1 expression levels were significantly higher in CXCR4LOW FLT3/ITD+ Ba/F3 cells incubated with 100 ng/ml CXCL12 than in CXCR4HIGH cells, coincident with an increase in FLT3 phosphorylation. Silencing RUNX1 partially abrogated resistance to quizartinib in CXCR4LOW cells incubated with CXCL12, whereas ectopic RUNX1 significantly restored resistance in CXCR4HIGH cells. These results indicate that CXCR4 signaling of different magnitudes paradoxically regulates resistance to quizartinib in FLT3/ITD+ cells via RUNX1.
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is one of the prevalent pediatric leukemias, accounting for 26% of cancers diagnosed in children 0-14 years of age. We present a case report of an 11-year-old girl with B-ALL. The patient was in complete remission nine months after diagnosis but passed away a month later from chemotherapy-induced hepatic failure, renal failure, and febrile neutropenia. Conventional cytogenetics showed a karyotype of 46,XX,del(5)(q31q35),add(6)(q23),del(7)(q32q36),add(11)(q23),ider(21)(q10)add(21) (q22),inc[20]. DNA FISH analysis performed on the bone marrow showed variant rearrangement of CRLF2, as well as loss of ETV6 signals and gain of RUNX1 signals. The presence of CRLF2 rearrangements within the context of a complex karyotype is often associated with CRLF2 overexpression and poor prognosis. The heterogeneity of B-ALL and the variability in the outcomes of patients that lack characteristic genetic abnormalities highlight the importance of profiling unusual genetic cases such as this one and continuing research to understand the molecular mechanisms of rarer mutations.
RUNX1 mutations are frequently detected in various myeloid neoplasms and implicate unfavourable clinical outcomes in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). On the other hand, high expression of RUNX1 is also correlated with poor prognosis in AML patients. However, the clinical relevancy of RUNX1 expression in MDS patients remains elusive. This study aimed to investigate the prognostic and biologic impacts of RUNX1 expression in MDS patients. We recruited 341 MDS patients who had sufficient bone marrow samples for next-generation sequencing. Higher RUNX1 expression occurred more frequently in the patients with Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R) higher-risk MDS than the lower-risk group. It was closely associated with poor-risk cytogenetics and mutations in ASXL1, NPM1, RUNX1, SRSF2, STAG2, TET2 and TP53. Furthermore, patients with higher RUNX1 expression had significantly shorter leukaemia-free survival (LFS) and overall survival (OS) than those with lower expression. Subgroups analysis revealed that higher-RUNX1 group consistently had shorter LFS and OS than the lower-RUNX1 group, no matter RUNX1 was mutated or not. The same findings were observed in IPSS-R subgroups. In multivariable analysis, higher RUNX1 expression appeared as an independent adverse risk factor for survival. The prognostic significance of RUNX1 expression was validated in two external public cohorts, GSE 114922 and GSE15061. In summary, we present the characteristics and prognosis of MDS patients with various RUNX1 expressions and propose that RUNX1 expression complement RUNX1 mutation in MDS prognostication, wherein patients with wild RUNX1 but high expression may need more proactive treatment.
BACKGROUND: The distribution of RUNX1-RUNXT1, PML-RARA, CBFB-MYH11, BCR-ABL1p210 , and KMT2A-MLLT3 in the pediatric population with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in many countries of Latin America is largely unknown. Therefore, we aimed to investigate the frequency of these fusion genes in children with de novo AML from Mexico City, which has one of the highest incidence rates of acute leukemia in the world. Additionally, we explored their impact in mortality during the first year of treatment.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the presence of RUNX1-RUNXT1, PML-RARA, CBFB-MYH11, BCR-ABL1p210 , and KMT2A-MLLT3 by RT-PCR among 77 patients (<18 years) diagnosed with de novo AML between 2019 and 2021 in nine Mexico City hospitals.RESULTS: The overall frequency of the fusion genes was 50.7%; RUNX1-RUNXT1 (22.1%) and PML-RARA (20.8%) were the most prevalent, followed by CBFB-MYH11 (5.2%) and BCR-ABL1p210 (2.4%). KMT2A-MLLT3 was not detected. Patients with PML-RARA showed the lowest survival with high early mortality events. However, more studies are required to evaluate the impact of analyzed fusion genes on the overall survival of the Mexican child population with AML.CONCLUSION: The pediatric population of Mexico City with AML had frequencies of AML1-ETO, PML-RARA, CBFB-MYH11, and BCR-ABL1p210 similar to those of other populations around the world. Patients with BCR-ABL1p210 and CBFB-MYH11 were few or did not die, while those with MLL-AF9 was not detected. Although patients with PML-RARA had a low survival and a high early mortality rate, further studies are needed to determine the long-term impacts of these fusion genes on this Latino population.
Updating the classification of hematologic neoplasia with germline predisposition, pediatric myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is critical for diagnosis, therapy, research, and clinical trials. Advances in next-generation sequencing technology have led to the identification of an expanding group of genes that predispose to the development of hematolymphoid neoplasia when mutated in germline configuration and inherited. This review encompasses recent advances in the classification of myeloid and lymphoblastic neoplasia with germline predisposition summarizing important genetic and phenotypic information, relevant laboratory testing, and pathologic bone marrow features. Genes are organized into three major categories including (1) those that are not associated with constitutional disorder and include CEBPA, DDX41, and TP53; (2) those associated with thrombocytopenia or platelet dysfunction including RUNX1, ANKRD26, and ETV6; and (3) those associated with constitutional disorders affecting multiple organ systems including GATA2, SAMD9, and SAMD9L, inherited genetic mutations associated with classic bone marrow failure syndromes and JMML, and Down syndrome. A provisional category of germline predisposition genes is created to recognize genes with growing evidence that may be formally included in future revised classifications as substantial supporting data emerges. We also detail advances in the classification of pediatric myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), expanding the definition of refractory cytopenia of childhood (RCC) to include early manifestation of MDS in patients with germline predisposition. Finally, updates in the classification of juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia are presented which genetically define JMML as a myeloproliferative/myelodysplastic disease harboring canonical RAS pathway mutations. Diseases with features overlapping with JMML that do not carry RAS pathway mutations are classified as JMML-like. The review is based on the International Consensus Classification (ICC) of Myeloid and Lymphoid Neoplasms as reported by Arber et al. (Blood 140(11):1200-1228, 2022).
The current classification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) relies largely on genomic alterations. Robust identification of clinically and biologically relevant molecular subtypes from nongenomic high-throughput sequencing data remains challenging. We established the largest multicenter AML cohort (n = 655) in China, with all patients subjected to RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and 619 (94.5%) to targeted or whole-exome sequencing (TES/WES). Based on an enhanced consensus clustering, eight stable gene expression subgroups (G1-G8) with unique clinical and biological significance were identified, including two unreported (G5 and G8) and three redefined ones (G4, G6, and G7). Apart from four well-known low-risk subgroups including PML::RARA (G1), CBFB::MYH11 (G2), RUNX1::RUNX1T1 (G3), biallelic CEBPA mutations or -like (G4), four meta-subgroups with poor outcomes were recognized. The G5 (myelodysplasia-related/-like) subgroup enriched clinical, cytogenetic and genetic features mimicking secondary AML, and hotspot mutations of IKZF1 (p.N159S) (n = 7). In contrast, most NPM1 mutations and KMT2A and NUP98 fusions clustered into G6-G8, showing high expression of HOXA/B genes and diverse differentiation stages, from hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell down to monocyte, namely HOX-primitive (G7), HOX-mixed (G8), and HOX-committed (G6). Through constructing prediction models, the eight gene expression subgroups could be reproduced in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Beat AML cohorts. Each subgroup was associated with distinct prognosis and drug sensitivities, supporting the clinical applicability of this transcriptome-based classification of AML. These molecular subgroups illuminate the complex molecular network of AML, which may promote systematic studies of disease pathogenesis and foster the screening of targeted agents based on omics.
Risk stratification in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains principle in survival prognostication and treatment selection. The 2022 European LeukemiaNet (ELN) recommendations were recently published, with notable updates to risk group assignment. The complexity of risk stratification and comparative outcomes between the 2022 and 2017 ELN guidelines remains unknown. This comparative analysis evaluated outcomes between the 2017 and 2022 ELN criteria in patients enrolled within the multicenter Beat AML cohort. Five hundred thirteen patients were included. Most patients had 1 or 2 ELN risk-defining abnormalities. In patients with ≥2 ELN risk-defining mutations, 44% (n = 132) had mutations spanning multiple ELN risk categories. Compared with ELN 2017 criteria, the updated ELN 2022 guidelines changed the assigned risk group in 15% of patients, including 10%, 26%, and 6% of patients categorized as being at ELN 2017 favorable-, intermediate-, and adverse-risk, respectively. The median overall survival across ELN 2022 favorable-, intermediate-, and adverse-risk groups was not reached, 16.8, and 9.7 months, respectively. The ELN 2022 guidelines more accurately stratified survival between patients with intermediate- or adverse-risk AML treated with induction chemotherapy compared with ELN 2017 guidelines. The updated ELN 2022 guidelines better stratify survival between patients with intermediate- or adverse-risk AML treated with induction chemotherapy. The increased complexity of risk stratification with inclusion of additional cytogenetic and molecular aberrations necessitates clinical workflows simplifying risk stratification.
BACKGROUND: Osteoclast differentiation plays a key role in orthodontic tooth movement (OTM). We aimed to explore the role of human periodontal ligament (hPDL) extracellular vesicles (EVs) in osteoclast differentiation and OTM.METHODS: The hPDL cells were exposed to 4.0 g/cm2 compression force (CF) and the hPDL-EVs were collected. The peripheral blood mononuclear cells were isolated, purified, and induced osteoclast differentiation. The OTM rat model was established through excess orthodontic force. Dual-luciferase reporter gene assay verified the targeting effect of miR-28 on RUNX1. In addition, tartrate-resistant acid phosphase (TRAP) staining, immunofluorescence, western blot, and quantitative real-time PCR were also carried out.RESULTS: CF pretreated hPDL-EVs promoted osteoclast differentiation and down-regulated RUNX1 levels in in vitro and in vivo experiments. The addition of CF-hPDL-EVs also elevated tooth movement in OTM rats. Besides, miR-28 was significantly up-regulated in CF-pretreated hPDL-EVs. In addition, RUNX1 was negatively regulated by miR-28. Moreover, the addition of CF-lenti-miR-28 inhibitor-Evs down-regulated the expression of osteoclast marker genes and the number of TRAP positive (+) multinucleated cells (MNCs) in vitro. Furthermore, in vivo experiments confirmed that CF-lenti-miR-28 inhibitor-Evs injection down-regulated the number of TRAP (+) MNCs and inhibited tooth movement of OTM rats.CONCLUSION: CF-treated hPDL-EVs promoted osteoclast differentiation by transporting miR-28 and inhibiting the expression of RUNX1, which provides new insight into the specific mechanism of hPDL-Evs affecting osteoclast differentiation.
Hemogenic endothelial (HE) cells are specialized endothelial cells to give rise to hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells during hematopoietic development. The underlying mechanisms that regulate endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) of human HE cells are not fully understand. Here, we identified platelet endothelial aggregation receptor-1 (PEAR1) as a novel regulator of early hematopoietic development in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). We found that the expression of PEAP1 was elevated during hematopoietic development. A subpopulation of PEAR1+ cells overlapped with CD34+ CD144+ CD184+ CD73- arterial-type HE cells. Transcriptome analysis by RNA sequencing indicated that TAL1/SCL, GATA2, MYB, RUNX1 and other key transcription factors for hematopoietic development were mainly expressed in PEAR1+ cells, whereas the genes encoding for niche-related signals, such as fibronectin, vitronectin, bone morphogenetic proteins and jagged1, were highly expressed in PEAR1- cells. The isolated PEAR1+ cells exhibited significantly greater EHT capacity on endothelial niche, compared with the PEAR1- cells. Colony-forming unit (CFU) assays demonstrated the multilineage hematopoietic potential of PEAR1+ -derived hematopoietic cells. Furthermore, PEAR1 knockout in hPSCs by CRISPR/Cas9 technology revealed that the hematopoietic differentiation was impaired, resulting in decreased EHT capacity, decreased expression of hematopoietic-related transcription factors, and increased expression of niche-related signals. In summary, this study revealed a novel role of PEAR1 in balancing intrinsic and extrinsic signals for early hematopoietic fate decision.
Genetic alterations of the RUNX1 gene are associated with a variety of malignancies, including female-related cancers. The role of RUNX1 as either a tumor suppressor gene or an oncogene is tissue-dependent and varies based on the cancer type. Both the amplification and deletion of the RUNX1 gene have been associated with ovarian cancer in humans. In this study, we investigated the effects of Runx1 loss on ovarian pathogenesis in mice. A conditional loss of Runx1 in the somatic cells of the ovary led to an increased prevalence of ovarian tumors in aged mice. By the age of 15 months, 27% of Runx1 knockout (KO) females developed ovarian tumors that presented characteristics of granulosa cell tumors. While ovaries from young adult mice did not display tumors, they all contained abnormal follicle-like lesions. The granulosa cells composing these follicle-like lesions were quiescent, displayed defects in differentiation and were organized in a rosette-like pattern. The RNA-sequencing analysis further revealed differentially expressed genes in Runx1 KO ovaries, including genes involved in metaplasia, ovarian cancer, epithelial cell development, tight junctions, cell-cell adhesion, and the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. Together, this study showed that Runx1 is required for normal granulosa cell differentiation and prevention of ovarian tumor development in mice.
Despite recent progress, acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains a disease associated with poor prognosis, particularly in older AML patients unfit to tolerate intensive chemotherapy treatment. The development and introduction in the therapy of Venetoclax (VEN), a potent BH3 mimetic targeting the antiapoptotic protein BCL-2, inducing apoptosis of leukemic cells, has shown to be a promising treatment for newly diagnosed, relapsed, and refractory AML patients ineligible for induction chemotherapy. Combination treatments using Ventoclax and a hypomethylating agent (azacitidine or decitabine) or low-intensity chemotherapy have shown in newly diagnosed patients variable response rates, with highly responsive patients with NPM1, IDH1-IDH2, TET2, and RUNX1 mutations and with scarcely responsive patients with FLT3, TP53 and ASXL1 mutations, complex karyotypes, and secondary AMLs. Patients with refractory/relapsing disease are less responsive to Venetoclax-based regimens. However, in the majority of patients, the responses have only a limited duration, and the development of resistance is frequently observed. Therefore, understanding the resistance mechanisms is crucial for developing new strategies and identifying rational drug combination regimens. In this context, two strategies seem to be promising: (i) triplet therapies based on the combined administration of Venetoclax, a hypomethylating agent (or low-dose chemotherapy), and an agent targeting a specific genetic alteration of leukemic cells (i.e., FLT3 inhibitors in FLT3-mutated AMLs) or an altered signaling pathway; (ii) combination therapies based on the administration of two BH3 mimetics (i.e., BCL-2 +MCL-1 mimetics) and a hypomethylating agent.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of clinically and genetically diverse diseases that impose patients with an increased risk of leukemic transformation. While MDS is a disease of the elderly, the interplay between aging and molecular profiles is not fully understood, especially in the Asian population. Thus, we compared the genetic landscape between younger and older patients in a cohort of 698 patients with primary MDS to advance our understanding of the distinct pathogenesis and different survival impacts of gene mutations in MDS according to age. We found that the average mutation number was higher in the older patients than younger ones. The younger patients had more WT1 and CBL mutations, but less mutated ASXL1, DNMT3A, TET2, SF3B1, SRSF2, STAG2, and TP53 than the older patients. In multivariable survival analysis, RUNX1 mutations with higher variant allele frequency (VAF) and U2AF1 and TP53 mutations were independent poor prognostic indicators in the younger patients, whereas DNMT3A and IDH2 mutations with higher VAF and TP53 mutations conferred inferior outcomes in the older patients. In conclusion, we demonstrated the distinct genetic landscape between younger and older patients with MDS and suggested that mutations impact survival in an age-depended manner.
The ETV6-RUNX1 onco-fusion arises in utero, initiating a clinically silent pre-leukemic state associated with the development of pediatric B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). We characterize the ETV6-RUNX1 regulome by integrating chromatin immunoprecipitation- and RNA-sequencing and show that ETV6-RUNX1 functions primarily through competition for RUNX1 binding sites and transcriptional repression. In pre-leukemia, this results in ETV6-RUNX1 antagonization of cell cycle regulation by RUNX1 as evidenced by mass cytometry analysis of B-lineage cells derived from ETV6-RUNX1 knock-in human pluripotent stem cells. In frank leukemia, knockdown of RUNX1 or its co-factor CBFβ results in cell death suggesting sustained requirement for RUNX1 activity which is recapitulated by chemical perturbation using an allosteric CBFβ-inhibitor. Strikingly, we show that RUNX1 addiction extends to other genetic subtypes of pediatric B-ALL and also adult disease. Importantly, inhibition of RUNX1 activity spares normal hematopoiesis. Our results suggest that chemical intervention in the RUNX1 program may provide a therapeutic opportunity in ALL.
A cis-regulatory genetic element which targets gene expression to stem cells, termed stem cell enhancer, serves as a molecular handle for stem cell-specific genetic engineering. Here we show the generation and characterization of a tamoxifen-inducible CreERT2 transgenic (Tg) mouse employing previously identified hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) enhancer for Runx1, eR1 (+24 m). Kinetic analysis of labeled cells after tamoxifen injection and transplantation assays revealed that eR1-driven CreERT2 activity marks dormant adult HSCs which slowly but steadily contribute to unperturbed hematopoiesis. Fetal and child HSCs that are uniformly or intermediately active were also efficiently targeted. Notably, a gene ablation at distinct developmental stages, enabled by this system, resulted in different phenotypes. Similarly, an oncogenic Kras induction at distinct ages caused different spectrums of malignant diseases. These results demonstrate that the eR1-CreERT2 Tg mouse serves as a powerful resource for the analyses of both normal and malignant HSCs at all developmental stages.
The transformation biology of secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) from myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs) is still not fully understood. We performed paired self-controlled sequencing, including targeted, whole exome, and single-cell RNA sequencing, in a cohort of MDS patients to search for AML transformation-related mutations (TRMs). Thirty-nine target genes from paired samples from 72 patients with MDS who had undergone AML transformation were analysed. The targeted sequencing results showed that 64 of 72 (88.9%) patients presented TRMs involving signalling pathway activation, transcription factors, or tumour suppressors. Of the 64 patients, most of the TRMs (62.5%, 40 cases) emerged at the leukaemia transformation point. Paired whole exome sequencing showed some presumptive TRMs, which were not included in the reference targets in three patients. No patient developed AML only by acquiring mutations involved in epigenetic modulation or ribonucleic acid splicing. Single-cell sequencing indicated that the activating cell signalling route was related to TRMs in one paired sample. Targeted sequencing defined TRMs were limited to a small set of seven genes (in the order: NRAS/KRAS, CEBPA, TP53, FLT3, CBL, PTPN11, and RUNX1, accounting for nearly 90.0% of the TRMs). In conclusion, somatic mutations involved in signalling, transcription factors, or tumour suppressors appeared to be a precondition for AML transformation from MDS.
DOI: 10.1038/s41375-022-01752-5PMCID: PMC9712081PMID: 36369483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
RUNX proteins, such as RUNX2, regulate the proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes and osteoblasts. Haploinsufficiency of RUNX2 causes cleidocranial dysplasia, but a detailed analysis of Runx2+/- mice has not been reported. Furthermore, CBFB is required for the stability and DNA binding of RUNX family proteins. CBFB has two isoforms, and CBFB2 plays a major role in skeletal development. The calvaria, femurs, vertebrae and ribs in Cbfb2-/- mice were analyzed after birth, and compared with those in Runx2+/- mice. Calvarial development was impaired in Runx2+/- mice but mildly delayed in Cbfb2-/- mice. In femurs, the cortical bone but not trabecular bone was reduced in Cbfb2-/- mice, whereas both the trabecular and cortical bone were reduced in Runx2+/- mice. The trabecular bone in vertebrae increased in Cbfb2-/- mice but not in Runx2+/- mice. Rib development was impaired in Cbfb2-/- mice but not in Runx2+/- mice. These differences were likely caused by differences in the indispensability of CBFB and RUNX2, the balance of bone formation and resorption, or the number and maturation stage of osteoblasts. Thus, different amounts of CBFB and RUNX2 were required among the bone tissues for proper bone development and maintenance.
Measurable residual disease (MRD) is a well-known tool for the evaluation of the early response to treatment in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In respect to predicting the relapse the most informative cut-off and time point of MRD measurement during therapy were evaluated in our study. Between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2019, multiparametric flow cytometry (MFC) MRD was measured in the bone marrow of 140 children with ALL treated according to the ALL IC-BFM2009 protocol. The MRD cut-off of 0.1% and day 33, end of induction, were the most discriminatory for all patients. Patients with negative MRD on day 15 and 33 had a higher 5-year overall survival-OS (100%) and a higher relapse-free survival-RFS rate (97.6%) than those with positive levels of MRD (≥0.01%) at both time points (77.8% and 55.6%, p = 0.002 and 0.001, respectively). Most patients with residual disease below 0.1% on day 15 exhibit hyperdiploidy or ETV6-RUNX1 in ALL cells. Measurement of MRD at early time points can be used with simplified genetic analysis to better identify low and high-risk patients, allowing personalized therapies and further improvement in outcomes in pediatric ALL.
Purpose: There is an urgent need for developing new biomarker tools to accurately predict treatment response of breast cancer, especially the deadly triple-negative breast cancer. We aimed to develop gene-mutation-based machine learning (ML) algorithms as biomarker classifiers to predict treatment response of first-line chemotherapy with high precision. Methods: Random Forest ML was applied to screen the algorithms of various combinations of gene mutation profiles of primary tumors at diagnosis using a TCGA Cohort (n = 399) with up to 150 months follow-up as a training set and validated in a MSK Cohort (n = 807) with up to 220 months follow-up. Subtypes of breast cancer including triple-negative and luminal A (ER+, PR+ and HER2−) were also assessed. The predictive performance of the candidate algorithms as classifiers was further assessed using logistic regression, Kaplan−Meier progression-free survival (PFS) plot, and univariate/multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analyses. Results: A novel algorithm termed the 12-Gene Algorithm based on mutation profiles of KRAS, PIK3CA, MAP3K1, MAP2K4, PTEN, TP53, CDH1, GATA3, KMT2C, ARID1A, RunX1, and ESR1, was identified. The performance of this algorithm to distinguish non-progressed (responder) vs. progressed (non-responder) to treatment in the TCGA Cohort as determined using AUC was 0.96 (95% CI 0.94−0.98). It predicted progression-free survival (PFS) with hazard ratio (HR) of 21.6 (95% CI 11.3−41.5) (p < 0.0001) in all patients. The algorithm predicted PFS in the triple-negative subgroup with HR of 19.3 (95% CI 3.7−101.3) (n = 42, p = 0.000). The 12-Gene Algorithm was validated in the MSK Cohort with a similar AUC of 0.97 (95% CI 0.96−0.98) to distinguish responder vs. non-responder patients, and had a HR of 18.6 (95% CI 4.4−79.2) to predict PFS in the triple-negative subgroup (n = 75, p < 0.0001). Conclusions: The novel 12-Gene algorithm based on multitude gene-mutation profiles identified through ML has a potential to predict breast cancer treatment response to therapies, especially in triple-negative subgroups patients, which may assist personalized therapies and reduce mortality.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have revolutionised the treatment of CML. However, TKI do not eliminate the leukaemia stem cells (LSC), which can re-initiate the disease. Thus, finding new therapeutic targets in CML LSC is key to finding a curative treatment. Using microarray datasets, we defined a list of 227 genes that were differentially expressed in CML LSC compared to the healthy controls but were not affected by TKI in vitro. Two of them, CD33 and PPIF, are targeted by gemtuzumab-ozogamicin and cyclosporin A, respectively. We treated CML and the control CD34+ cells with either drug with or without imatinib to investigate the therapeutic potential of the TKI-independent gene expression programme. Cyclosporine A, in combination with imatinib, reduced the number of CML CFC compared with non-CML controls, but only at supra-therapeutic concentrations. Gemtuzumab-ozogamicin showed an EC50 of 146 ng/mL, below the plasma peak concentration of 630 ng/mL observed in the AML patients and below the EC50 of 3247 ng/mL observed in the non-CML cells. Interestingly, gemtuzumab-ozogamicin seems to promote cell cycle progression in CML CD34+ cells and demonstrated activation of the RUNX1 pathway in an RNAseq experiment. This suggests that targeting the TKI-independent genes in CML LSC could be exploited for the development of new therapies in CML.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with mutated RUNX1 (RUNX1mut) is considered to have an unfavorable prognosis. However, recent studies have reported comparable survival outcomes with wild-type RUNX1 (RUNX1wt). To assess the clinical outcomes of AML with and without RUNX1mut, we performed a prospective cohort study and systematic review and meta-analysis. The study enrolled 135 patients (27 with RUNX1mut; 108 with RUNX1wt). There were no significant differences in the median OS and RFS of the RUNX1mut and RUNX1wt groups (9.1 vs. 12.2 months; p = 0.268 and 7.8 vs. 14.6 months; p = 0.481, respectively). A subgroup analysis of de novo AML patients with intermediate-risk cytogenetics showed similar outcomes. Our meta-analysis pooled data from 23 studies and our study. The complete remission rate was significantly lower in the RUNX1mut group (pooled odds ratio: 0.42). The OS, RFS, and event-free survival rates also favored the RUNX1wt group (pooled risk ratios: 1.36, 1.37, and 1.37, respectively). A subgroup analysis of de novo AML patients with intermediate-risk cytogenetics demonstrated nearly identical OS and RFS outcomes. This study confirms that patients with AML and RUNX1mut had poor prognoses. Nonetheless, in de novo AML with intermediate-risk cytogenetics, the survival outcomes of both groups were comparable.
Comment in    Blood Cancer Discov. 2023 Jan 6;4(1):2-4.
Objective: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been demonstrated to be closely involved in colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis and metastasis. More potential biomarkers are needed to be searched for colorectal cancer (CRC) diagnosis and treatment. The objective of this study is to seek differentially expressed circRNAs (DEcircRNAs), test their roles in CRC and construct a potential competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network. Methods: CircRNA microarrays were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus, and differential expression was analyzed by R software. The relative expressions of DEcircRNAs were confirmed in CRC tissues and cell lines by qRT-PCR. MTs and Transwell experiments were performed for detecting the roles of circRNAs on CRC cell proliferation and migration, respectively. Targeted miRNAs of circRNAs and targeted mRNAs of miRNAs were predicted and screened by bioinformatics methods. A ceRNA network of DEcircRNAs was constructed by Cytoscape. To further verify the potential ceRNA network, the expressions of miRNAs and mRNAs in knockdown of DEcircRNAs CRC cells were detected by qRT-PCR. Results: Two DEcircRNAs (hsa_circ_0040809 and hsa_circ_0000467) were identified and validated in CRC tissues and cell lines. The results of MTs and Transwell experiments showed that hsa_circ_0040809 and hsa_circ_0000467 promoted CRC proliferation and migration. Bioinformatics analysis screened 3 miRNAs (miR-326, miR-330-5p, and miR-330-3p) and 2 mRNAs (FADS1 and RUNX1), and a ceRNA network was constructed. In knockdown of hsa_circ_0040809 HCT-116 cells, the expression of miR-330-3p was significantly upregulated, while RUNX1 was significantly downregulated. In knockdown of hsa_circ_0000467 HCT-116 cells, the expressions of miR-326 and miR-330-3p were upregulated, while FADS1was downregulated. Conclusion: We found that hsa_circ_0040809 and hsa_circ_0000467 were upregulated in CRC tissues and cell lines, and promoted CRC cell progression. A circRNA-miRNA-mRNA network based on hsa_circ_0040809 and hsa_circ_0000467 was constructed.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous hematological malignancy caused by mutations in genes encoding transcriptional and epigenetic regulators together with signaling genes. It is characterized by a disturbance of differentiation and abnormal proliferation of hematopoietic progenitors. We have previously shown that each AML subtype establishes its own core gene regulatory network (GRN), consisting of transcription factors binding to their target genes and imposing a specific gene expression pattern that is required for AML maintenance. In this study, we integrate gene expression, open chromatin and ChIP data with promoter-capture Hi-C data to define a refined core GRN common to all patients with CEBPA-double mutant (CEBPAN/C) AML. These mutations disrupt the structure of a major regulator of myelopoiesis. We identify the binding sites of mutated C/EBPα proteins in primary cells, we show that C/EBPα, AP-1 factors and RUNX1 colocalize and are required for AML maintenance, and we employ single cell experiments to link important network nodes to the specific differentiation trajectory from leukemic stem to blast cells. Taken together, our study provides an important resource which predicts the specific therapeutic vulnerabilities of this AML subtype in human cells.
Colorectal cancer liver metastases (CRCLMs) have two major histopathological growth patterns (HGPs): desmoplastic (DHGP) and replacement (RHGP). The DHGP tumours derive their vasculature by angiogenesis, while the RHGP tumours use vessel co-option. Various studies have associated RHGP tumours with an unfavourable prognosis, as well as high levels of resistance to anti-angiogenic agents and chemotherapy. Recently, we reported higher numbers of neutrophils in the tumour microenvironment (TME) of vessel co-opting tumours compared to their angiogenic counterparts. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenotype are unclear. Herein, we suggested a positive correlation between the expression of angiopoietin-1 (Ang1) in the hepatocytes and the presence of neutrophils in vessel co-opting tumours. Importantly, upregulation of Ang1 in the hepatocytes is associated with the presence of runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1) in the neighboring cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, our data suggest the molecular mechanisms by which neutrophils are infiltrated in vessel co-opting CRCLM lesions. This finding may yield novel therapeutic strategies for CRCLM patients in future.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) play important roles in regulating tissue homeostasis and innate immune responses. Generation of ILCs after engraftment of pluripotent stem cell (PSC)-derived hematopoietic progenitors (iHPCs) has not yet been reported. Here, we document that ILCs exist in Rag2-/-Il2rg-/- recipients engrafted with PSC-derived iHPCs guided by Runx1 and Hoxa9 expression. Upon transplantation, iHPCs immediately give rise to ILC-related progenitors containing common helper ILC progenitors in the bone marrow, followed by a more restricted population named ILC progenitors, which are able to further differentiate into mature ILCs in the primary and secondary immunodeficient recipients. The PSC-derived ILCs exhibit multiple tissue distributions and normal immunological functions. Single-cell transcriptomics illustrates the developmental trajectory of PSC-derived ILCs in vivo, which is consistent with that of natural ILCs. Our study provides insights into the generation of ILCs in animals transplanted with PSC-derived iHPCs as a cell source.
Germ line loss-of-function heterozygous mutations in the RUNX1 gene cause familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancies (FPDMM) characterized by thrombocytopenia and a life-long risk of hematological malignancies. Although gene therapies are being considered as promising therapeutic options, current preclinical models do not recapitulate the human phenotype and are unable to elucidate the relative fitness of mutation-corrected and RUNX1-heterozygous mutant hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) in vivo long term. We generated a rhesus macaque with an FPDMM competitive repopulation model using CRISPR/Cas9 nonhomologous end joining editing in the RUNX1 gene and the AAVS1 safe-harbor control locus. We transplanted mixed populations of edited autologous HSPCs and tracked mutated allele frequencies in blood cells. In both animals, RUNX1-edited cells expanded over time compared with AAVS1-edited cells. Platelet counts remained below the normal range in the long term. Bone marrows developed megakaryocytic dysplasia similar to human FPDMM, and CD34+ HSPCs showed impaired in vitro megakaryocytic differentiation, with a striking defect in polyploidization. In conclusion, the lack of a competitive advantage for wildtype or control-edited HSPCs over RUNX1 heterozygous-mutated HSPCs long term in our preclinical model suggests that gene correction approaches for FPDMM will be challenging, particularly to reverse myelodysplastic syndrome/ acute myeloid leukemia predisposition and thrombopoietic defects.
Immune cell infiltration occurs in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and influences cancer progression through interaction with tumor cells. Runt-related transcription factors (RUNXs), RUNX1-3, are the master regulators of development and differentiation and are all important to the development of immune cells. However, the role of RUNXs in the immune cells of TME remains unclear. In this study, we first used online related databases and related LGG data from TCGA and CGGA to conduct bioinformatics analysis, which confirmed that RUNXs were significantly and positively correlated with immune infiltration in multiple tumors, especially in low-grade glioma (LGG) and there was the highest correlation between RUNXs and the progress and prognosis of LGG. Furthermore, the functional enrichment analysis revealed that RUNXs might be involved in the inflammatory and immune responses of the biological processes, and RUNXs were tightly associated with the multiple immune checkpoint molecules. Subsequent results confirmed that RUNX1, as an independent prognostic factor for LGG, may target interferon-gamma receptor 2 (IFNGR2) to regulate glioma cell proliferation, invasion, and migration. Besides, we also found that the expression levels of RUNX1 and IFNGR2 were significantly reduced, and their correlation was enhanced in the IDH-mutant subtype. Patients with a high expression of RUNX1 and/or IFNGR2 (HH/H) in the IDH-mutant subtype showed poorer prognosis and significantly increased infiltration of M2 macrophages. This finding implied the possible key role of RUNX1 in the differentiation of IDH mutant subtypes as well as in the formation of tumor microenvironment (TME) infiltration signatures by monitoring IFNGR2.
BACKGROUND: The hair coat is available for the yak to live in the harsh environment of the plateau. Besides, improving the hair production of yak is necessary for its textile industry development. Hair grows from hair follicles (HFs). The HFs undergo periodic growth after birth and are regulated by the complex gene regulatory network. However, the molecular mechanism of HFs regeneration in the Tianzhu white yak remains unclear. RNA editing is a post-transcriptional mechanism that regulates gene expression and produces new transcripts. Hence, we investigated the influence of the A-to-I RNA editing events on the HFs cycle of the Tianzhu white yak.RESULTS: We finally identified 54,707 adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) RNA editing sites (RESs) from RNA sequencing data of the HFs cycle in the Tianzhu white yak. Annotation results showed RESs caused missense amino acid changes in 7 known genes. And 202 A-to-I editing sites altered 23 target genes of 140 microRNAs. A total of 1,722 differential RESs were identified during the HFs cycle of Tianzhu white yak. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis revealed several signaling pathways and GO terms involved skin development, hair growth, and HFs cycle. Such as genes with differential RNA editing levels were significantly enriched in the peroxisome, metabolic pathways, Notch signaling pathway, and PPAR signaling pathway. Besides, the editing sites in HFs development-related genes FAS, APCDD1, WWOX, MPZL3, RUNX1, KANK2, DCN, DSC2, LEPR, HEPHL1, and PTK2B were suggested as the potential RESs involving HFs development.CONCLUSION: This study investigated the global A-to-I RNA editing events during the HFs cycle of yak skin tissue and expanded the knowledge of A-to-I RNA editing on the HFs cycle. Furthermore, this study revealed that RNA editing-influenced genes may regulate the HFs cycle by participating in the HFs development-related pathways. The findings might provide new insight into the regulation of RNA editing in hair growth.
Single gene mutations in the RAS pathway are uncommon and of unknown significance in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients, RAS pathway-related gene mutations (RASwaymut ) as a whole may be significant and require further elucidation. The clinical and molecular data of 370 MDS patients who were newly diagnosed between 1 November 2016 and 31 August 2020 in our hospital were collected and retrospectively reviewed. RASwaymut were detected in 57 (15.41%) patients. Higher median percentage of marrow blasts (2% vs. 1%, P = 0.00), more co-mutated genes (4, interquartile range [IQR]: 2-5. vs. 2, IQR:1-4, P = 0.00), more higher risk patients according to international prognostic scoring system-revised (IPSS-R) (80.70% vs. 59.11%, P = 0.002) as well as higher acute myeloid leukemia transformation rate (35.09% vs. 14.38%, P = 0.02) were observed in patients with RASwaymut when compared to those with wild type RAS pathway-related genes (RASwaywt ). The most frequent co-mutated genes were ASXL1 (28.6%), TET2 (23.2%), U2AF1, RUNX1, TP53 (14.3%); DNMT3A (12.5%), among which ASXL1 mutation rate were significantly higher than those with RASwaywt (p < 0.05). RASwaymut had no significant effect on response to disease-modifying treatment in MDS patients. However, Overall survivals (OS) of RASwaymut patients were significantly shorter than those with RASwaywt (16.05 m. vs. 92.3 m, P = 0.00), especially in patients with marrow blasts less than 5% (P = 0.002), normal karyotype (P = 0.01) and lower risk (P = 0.00). While multivariate prognostic analysis showed that RASwaymut co-mutated with TET2 was an independent poor prognostic factor for all MDS patients (P = 0.00, hazrad ratio [HR] = 4.77 with 95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.4-9.51) and RASwaymut patients (P = 0.02, HR 2.76, 95% CI 1.21-6.29). In conclusion, RASwaymut was associated with higher IPSS-R risk, higher incidence of leukemic transformation thus shorter OS in MDS patients, it could be viewed as a whole to predict poor prognosis. Co-mutation with TET2 may promote disease progression and was an independent poor prognostic factor in MDS patients.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1009233.].
DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008625PMCID: PMC10230164PMID: 36315007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
While the clinical impact of mutations in the ABL1 gene on response to therapy in chronic phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CP-CML) is well established, less is known about how other mutations affect prognosis. In a retrospective analysis, we identified 115 patients with CML (71 chronic, 15 accelerated and 29 blast phase) where targeted next-generation sequencing of genes recurrently mutated in myeloid leukemias was performed. ASXL1 was the most frequently mutated gene in the chronic (14%) and accelerated phase (40%) CML patients, whereas RUNX1 (20%) was the most common mutation in blast phase. Compared with wild-type ASXL1, CP-CML with mutant ASXL1 was associated with worse event-free survival (EFS) (median of 32.8 vs 88.3 months; P = 0.002) and failure-free survival (median of 13.8 vs 57.8 months; P = 0.04). In a multivariate analysis, ASXL1 mutation was the only independent risk factor associated with worse EFS in chronic phase CML with a hazard ratio of 4.25 (95% CI 1.59-11.35, P = 0.004). In conclusion, mutations in ASXL1 are associated with worse outcomes when detected in chronic phase CML.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) plays a key role in cartilage formation, but its function in articular cartilage formation is unclear. We generated non-inducible and inducible Runx1-deficient mice (Runx1f/fCol2α1-Cre and Runx1f/fCol2α1-CreER mice) and found that chondrocyte-specific Runx1-deficient mice developed a spontaneous osteoarthritis (OA)-like phenotype and showed exacerbated articular cartilage destruction under OA, characterized by articular cartilage degradation and cartilage ossification, with decreased Col2α1 expression and increased Mmp13 and Adamts5 expression. RNA-sequencing analysis of hip articular cartilage from the Runx1f/fCol2α1-Cre mice compared to that from wild-type mice and subsequent validation analyses demonstrated that Runx1 is a central regulator in multiple signaling pathways, converging signals of the Hippo/Yap, TGFβ/Smad, and Wnt/β-catenin pathways into a complex network to regulate the expression of downstream genes, thereby controlling a series of osteoarthritic pathological processes. RNA-sequencing analysis of mutant knee joints showed that Runx1's role in signaling pathways in articular cartilage is different from that in whole knee joints, indicating that Runx1 regulation is tissue-specific. Histopathologic analysis confirmed that Runx1 deficiency decreased the levels of YAP and p-Smad2/3 and increased the levels of active β-catenin. Overexpression of Runx1 dramatically increased YAP expression in chondrocytes. Adeno-associated virus-mediated Runx1 overexpression in the knee joints of osteoarthritic mice showed the protective effect of Runx1 on articular cartilage damaged in OA. Our results notably showed that Runx1 is a central regulator of articular cartilage homeostasis by orchestrating the YAP, TGFβ, and Wnt signaling pathways in the formation of articular cartilage and OA, and targeting Runx1 and its downstream genes may facilitate the design of novel therapeutic approaches for OA.
Author information:(1)Hôpital Huriez, CHU de Lille, service de maladies du sang, 1, place de Verdun, 59037 Lille cedex, France. Electronic address: valerie.coiteux@chu-lille.fr.(2)Université de Lille, CHU de Lille, CNRS, UMR9020-U1277-CANTHER-Cancer Heterogeneity Plasticity and Resistance to Therapies, Inserm, 59000 Lille, France.(3)Hôpital Huriez, hôpital Fontan, CHU de Lille, service de maladies du sang, service de psychiatrie de liaison, 1, place de Verdun, 59037 Lille cedex, France.(4)CHU de Toulouse, institut universitaire du cancer de Toulouse Oncopole, service d'hématologie, 1, avenue Irène-Joliot-Curie, 31059 Toulouse, France.(5)AP-HP, hôpital Saint-Antoine, service d'hématologie clinique et thérapie cellulaire, 184, rue du faubourg Saint-Antoine, 75012 Paris, France.(6)Université de Lille, CHU de Lille, LIRIC, Inserm U995, 59000 Lille, France.(7)Université de Genève, hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, faculté de médecine, service d'hématologie, 4, rue Gabrielle-Perret-Gentil, 1211 Genève, Suisse. Electronic address: yves.chalandon@hcuge.ch.
The incidence of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is different among males and females. This disparity cannot be fully explained by the difference in terms of exposure to known risk factors; therefore, the lower incidence in women could be attributed to sex-specific hormones. A two-phase association study was conducted in 12,387 female subjects (5436 PDAC cases and 6951 controls) to assess the effect on risk of developing PDAC of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 208 genes involved in oestrogen and pregnenolone biosynthesis and oestrogen-mediated signalling. In the discovery phase 14 polymorphisms showed a statistically significant association (P < 0.05). In the replication none of the findings were validated. In addition, a gene-based analysis was performed on the 208 selected genes. Four genes (NR5A2, MED1, NCOA2 and RUNX1) were associated with PDAC risk, but only NR5A2 showed an association (P = 4.08 × 10-5) below the Bonferroni-corrected threshold of statistical significance. In conclusion, despite differences in incidence between males and females, our study did not identify an effect of common polymorphisms in the oestrogen and pregnenolone pathways in relation to PDAC susceptibility. However, we validated the previously reported association between NR5A2 gene variants and PDAC risk.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has emerged since December 2019 and was later characterized as a pandemic by WHO, imposing a major public health threat globally. Our study aimed to identify common signatures from different biological levels to enlighten the current unclear association between COVID-19 and Parkinson's disease (PD) as a number of possible links, and hypotheses were reported in the literature. We have analyzed transcriptome data from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of both COVID-19 and PD patients, resulting in a total of 81 common differentially expressed genes (DEGs). The functional enrichment analysis of common DEGs are mostly involved in the complement system, type II interferon gamma (IFNG) signaling pathway, oxidative damage, microglia pathogen phagocytosis pathway, and GABAergic synapse. The protein-protein interaction network (PPIN) construction was carried out followed by hub detection, revealing 10 hub genes (MX1, IFI27, C1QC, C1QA, IFI6, NFIX, C1S, XAF1, IFI35, and ELANE). Some of the hub genes were associated with molecular mechanisms such as Lewy bodies-induced inflammation, microglia activation, and cytokine storm. We investigated regulatory elements of hub genes at transcription factor and miRNA levels. The major transcription factors regulating hub genes are SOX2, XAF1, RUNX1, MITF, and SPI1. We propose that these events may have important roles in the onset or progression of PD. To sum up, our analysis describes possible mechanisms linking COVID-19 and PD, elucidating some unknown clues in between.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a biologically and genetically heterogeneous hematological malignance with an unsatisfactory risk stratification system. Recently, through the novel single-cell RNA sequencing technology, we revealed heterogeneous leukemia myeloblasts in RUNX1-RUNX1T1 AML. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), as biomarkers of CD34+CD117bri myeloblasts, were found to be prognostic in RUNX1-RUNX1T1 AML. However, the clinical and genetic features of TRH in AML patients are poorly understood. Here, with data from TCGA AML, TRH was found to be downregulated in patients older than 60 years old, with DNMT3A and NPM1 mutations, while overexpressed in patients with KIT mutations. This was further validated in three other cohorts of primary AML including Beat AML (n = 223), GSE6891 (n = 461), and GSE17855 (n = 237). Furthermore, we demonstrated that the expression of TRH in AML could be used to improve the ELN 2017 risk stratification system. In conclusion, our preliminary analysis revealed that TRH, a novel biomarker for AML patients, could be used to evaluate the survival of AML.
Studies of induced granulocytic differentiation help to reveal molecular mechanisms of cell maturation. The nuclear proteome represents a rich source of regulatory molecules, including transcription factors (TFs). It is important to have an understanding of molecular perturbations at the early stages of the differentiation processes. By applying the proteomic quantitative profiling using isobaric labeling, we found that the contents of 214, 319, 376, 426, and 391 proteins were altered at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 72 h, respectively, compared to 0 h in the HL-60 cell nuclear fraction under all-trans-retinoid acid (ATRA) treatment. From 1860 identified nuclear proteins, 231 proteins were annotated as proteins with transcription factor (TF) activity. Six TFs (RREB1, SRCAP, CCDC124, TRIM24, BRD7, and BUD31) were downregulated and three TFs EWSR1, ENO1, and FUS were upregulated at early time points (3-12 h) after ATRA treatment. Bioinformatic annotation indicates involvement of the HL-60 nuclear proteome in DNA damage recognition in the RUNX1-triggered pathway, and in the p53-regulation pathway. By applying scheduled multiple reaction monitoring using stable isotopically labeled peptide standards (MRM/SIS), we found a persistent increase in the content of the following proteins: PRAM1, CEPBP, RBPJ, and HIC1 in the HL-60 cell nuclear fraction during ATRA-induced granulocytic differentiation. In the case of STAT1, CASP3, PARP1, and PRKDC proteins, a transient increase in their content was observed at early time points (3-12 h) after the ATRA treatment. Obtained data on nuclear proteome composition and dynamics during granulocytic differentiation could be beneficial for the development of new treatment approaches for leukemias with the mutated p53 gene.
The WHO classifies t(6;9)-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) as a subgroup of high-risk AML because of its clinical and biological peculiarities, such as young age and therapy resistance. t(6;9) encodes the DEK/NUP214 fusion oncoprotein that targets only a small subpopulation of bone marrow progenitors for leukemic transformation. This distinguishes DEK/NUP214 from other fusion oncoproteins, such as PML/RARα, RUNX1/ETO, or MLL/AF9, which have a broad target population they block differentiation and increase stem cell capacity. A common theme among most leukemogenic fusion proteins is their aberrant localization compared to their wild-type counterparts. Although the actual consequences are widely unknown, it seems to contribute to leukemogenesis most likely by a sequester of interaction partners. Thus, we applied a global approach to studying the consequences of the aberrant localization of t(6;9)-DEK/NUP214 for its interactome. This study aimed to disclose the role of localization of DEK/NUP214 and the related sequester of proteins interacting with DEK/NUP214 for the determination of the biology of t(6;9)-AML. Here we show the complexity of the biological consequences of the expression of DEK/NUP214 by an in-depth bioinformatic analysis of the interactome of DEK/NUP214 and its biologically dead mutants. DEK/NUP214's interactome points to an essential role for aberrant RNA-regulation and aberrant regulation of apoptosis and leukocyte activation as a significant determinant of the phenotype of t(6;9)-AML. Taken together, we provide evidence that the interactome contributes to the aberrant biology of an oncoprotein, providing opportunities for developing novel targeted therapy approaches.
RORγt is known to instruct the differentiation of T helper 17 (TH17) cells that mediate the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. However, it remains unknown whether RORγt plays a distinct role in the differentiation and effector function of TH17 cells. Here, we show that mutation of RORγt lysine-256, a ubiquitination site, to arginine (K256R) separates the RORγt role in these two functions. Preventing ubiquitination at K256 via arginine substitution does not affect RORγt-dependent thymocyte development, and TH17 differentiation in vitro and in vivo, however, greatly impaired the pathogenesis of TH17 cell-mediated experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Mechanistically, K256R mutation impairs RORγt to bind to and activate Runx1 expression critical for TH17-mediated EAE. Thus, RORγt regulates the effector function of TH17 cells in addition to TH17 differentiation. This work informs the development of RORγt-based therapies that specifically target the effector function of TH17 cells responsible for autoimmunity.
Comment in    Blood. 2023 Mar 16;141(11):1237-1238.
Erratum in    Br J Haematol. 2023 May;201(3):590.
Recently, MDS with mutated SF3B1 and blast count <5% was proposed as distinct entity with favorable prognosis by the international working group for the prognosis of MDS (IWG-PM), the 5th edition of the WHO classification and the International Consensus Classification. To further characterize this entity with respect to the genomic landscape, AML transformation rate and clinical outcome, we analyzed 734 MDS patients by whole genome sequencing. SF3B1 mutations were identified in 31% (n = 231), most frequently accompanied by TET2 mutations (29%). 144/231 (62%) SF3B1mut samples fulfilled entity criteria proposed by IWG-PM (SF3B1ent). These cases were associated with longer survival, lower AML transformation rate, normal karyotypes and harbored less accompanying mutations compared to SF3B1mut samples not falling into the proposed SF3B1 entity (SF3B1nent). Of SF3B1mut cases 7% (15/231; SF3B1ent: 3/144 [2%]; SF3B1nent: 12/87 [14%]) progressed to AML compared to 15% SF3B1 wild-type patients (75/503). Of these 15 SF3B1mut cases, 10 (67%) showed RUNX1 mutations at MDS or AML stage. Multivariate analysis revealed that del(5q) and RUNX1 mutations were independent negative prognostic factors for overall survival, while blast count >5% was not. In conclusion, SF3B1mut MDS has a favorable prognosis independent of blast count if karyotype and RUNX1 mutations are considered.
Erratum for    Leukemia. 2021 Nov;35(11):3304-3308.
Defined human primary cell model systems with growth dependence on oncogenes are highly requested to investigate tumor pathogenesis and to validate pharmacological inhibitors that specifically target oncoproteins and their executing protein complex partners. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), transcription factors such as RUNX1 and MLL1, which are important for normal blood cell development, frequently harbor mutations including chromosomal translocations with other coding genes, resulting in tumor-promoting gain-of-function fusion proteins. These oncoproteins completely modify transcriptional programs, thereby inducing malignant cell phenotypes. A common theme of the chimeric gene products is their physical interaction with a variety of chromatin-modifying effector molecules, including histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs). These aberrant multiprotein machineries disturb gene expression and promote malignant cell growth. In this chapter, we briefly summarize the current understanding regarding AML-associated oncogene-driven human CD34+ blood progenitor cell expansion in ex vivo liquid cultures. We provide a step-by-step protocol to establish oncogene-induced human CD34+ blood progenitor cell cultures suitable to analyze the impact of transcriptional repressor/HDAC activity in these human AML cell models.
There are considerable new data on mutation topography in persons with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). These data have been used to update conventional risk models such as the Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R). Whether the molecular IPSS (IPSS-M) which includes these data improves survival prediction accuracy is untested. To answer this question, we compared survival prediction accuracies of the IPSS-R and IPSS-M in 852 consecutive subjects with de novo MDS. Concordance statistics (C-statistics) of the IPSS-R and IPSS-M in the entire cohort were similar, 0.67 (95% Confidence Interval [CI] 0.64, 0.71) and 0.68 (0.64, 0.71). Average numbers of mutations and of IPSS-M related mutations were greater in persons ≥ 60 years (2.0 [Interquartile Range [IQR], 1, 3] vs. 1.6 [0, 2], P = 0.003; 1.6 [0, 2] vs. 1.3 [0, 2], P = 0.006). Subjects ≥ 60 years had a higher incidence of mutations in RUNX1, TP53, TET2, SRSF2, DNMT3A, STAG2, EZH2 and DDX41. In contrast, mutations in U2AF1 were more common in persons < 60 years. Next we tested survival prediction accuracy based on age < or ≥ 60 years. C-statistics of the IPSS-R and IPSS-M in subjects ≥ 60 years were 0.66 (0.61, 0.71) and 0.69 (0.64, 0.73) whereas in subjects < 60 years they were 0.67 (0.61, 0.72) and 0.65 (0.59, 0.71). These data indicate an advantage for the IPSS-M over the IPSS-R in subjects ≥ 60 years but not in those < 60 years probably because of a great frequency of mutations correlated with survival in those ≥ 60 years.
Measurable residual disease (MRD) is a powerful prognostic factor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, pre-treatment molecular predictors of immunophenotypic MRD clearance remain unclear. We analyzed a dataset of 211 patients with pre-treatment next-generation sequencing who received induction chemotherapy and had MRD assessed by serial immunophenotypic monitoring after induction, subsequent therapy, and allogeneic stem cell transplant (allo-SCT). Induction chemotherapy led to MRD- remission, MRD+ remission, and persistent disease in 35%, 27%, and 38% of patients, respectively. With subsequent therapy, 34% of patients with MRD+ and 26% of patients with persistent disease converted to MRD-. Mutations in CEBPA, NRAS, KRAS, and NPM1 predicted high rates of MRD- remission, while mutations in TP53, SF3B1, ASXL1, and RUNX1 and karyotypic abnormalities including inv (3), monosomy 5 or 7 predicted low rates of MRD- remission. Patients with fewer individual clones were more likely to achieve MRD- remission. Among 132 patients who underwent allo-SCT, outcomes were favorable whether patients achieved early MRD- after induction or later MRD- after subsequent therapy prior to allo-SCT. As MRD conversion with chemotherapy prior to allo-SCT is rarely achieved in patients with specific baseline mutational patterns and high clone numbers, upfront inclusion of these patients into clinical trials should be considered.
BACKGROUND: Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common pediatric cancer. Minimal residual disease (MRD) detection is the most powerful prognostic tool for monitoring treatment efficacy and predicting clinical outcomes. We aimed to identify key leukemia-associated markers, the proportions of differential expression in patients, and the most effective marker combination for MRD detection by flow cytometry.METHODS: Bone marrow samples were collected from 132 pediatric patients with newly diagnosed (n = 115) or relapsed (n = 17) B-cell precursor (BCP)-ALL. We used CD19, CD10, CD34, CD45 as backbone markers to identify immature B cells and analyzed the differential expression of 18 leukemia-associated markers using seven-color multiparameter flow cytometry.RESULTS: Leukemic cells in all 132 patients expressed leukemia-associated markers. The most commonly overexpressed marker was heat shock protein 27 (Hsp27) (108 patients, 81%), followed by CD73 (102 patients, 77%) and CD123 (80 patients, 60%). CD38 was underexpressed in 64 patients (48%). Hsp27 overexpression persisted in 50 out of 57 follow-up MRD bone marrow samples (87%) and was associated with older age at diagnosis. Hsp27 overexpression was not associated with MRD levels or genetic abnormalities including hyperdiploidy, t(12;21)/ETV6-RUNX1, t(1;19)/TCF3-PBX1, t(9;22)/BCR-ABL1, or 11q23/KMT2A rearrangements. Four remaining leukemia-associated markers (Hsp27, CD73, CD58, CD24) after in silico deletion from the original panel could collectively detect leukemia-associated cell profiles in 100% of cases in this cohort and 98% of cases in a validation cohort.CONCLUSION: Hsp27 combined with CD73, CD58, CD24, and backbone markers allows monitoring MRD in virtually all patients with BCP-ALL.
BACKGROUND: Cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) is a rare skeletal dysplasia with significant clinical variability. Patients with CCD typically present with delayed closure of fontanels and cranial sutures, dental anomalies, clavicular hypoplasia or aplasia and short stature. Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) is currently the only known disease-causing gene for CCD, but several studies have suggested locus heterogeneity.METHODS: The cohort consists of eight subjects from five unrelated families partially identified through GeneMatcher. Exome or genome sequencing was applied and in two subjects the effect of the variant was investigated at RNA level.RESULTS: In each subject a heterozygous pathogenic variant in CBFB was detected, whereas no genomic alteration involving RUNX2 was found. Three CBFB variants (one splice site alteration, one nonsense variant, one 2 bp duplication) were shown to result in a premature stop codon. A large intragenic deletion was found to delete exon 4, without affecting CBFB expression. The effect of a second splice site variant could not be determined but most likely results in a shortened or absent protein. Affected individuals showed similarities with RUNX2-related CCD, including dental and clavicular abnormalities. Normal stature and neurocognitive problems were however distinguishing features. CBFB encodes the core-binding factor β subunit, which can interact with all RUNX proteins (RUNX1, RUNX2, RUNX3) to form heterodimeric transcription factors. This may explain the phenotypic differences between CBFB-related and RUNX2-related CCD.CONCLUSION: We confirm the previously suggested locus heterogeneity for CCD by identifying five pathogenic variants in CBFB in a cohort of eight individuals with clinical and radiographic features reminiscent of CCD.
Homeobox genes encode transcription factors regulating basic developmental processes. They are arranged according to sequence similarities of their conserved homeobox in 11 classes, including TALE. Recently, we have reported the so-called TALE-code. This gene signature describes physiological expression patterns of all active TALE-class homeobox genes in the course of hematopoiesis. The TALE-code allows the evaluation of deregulated TALE homeobox genes in leukemia/lymphoma. Here, we extended the TALE-code to include the stages of pro-B-cells and pre-B-cells in early B-cell development. Detailed analysis of the complete lineage of B-cell differentiation revealed expression of TALE homeobox genes IRX1 and MEIS1 exclusively in pro-B-cells. Furthermore, we identified aberrant expression of IRX2, IRX3 and MEIS1 in patients with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) which originates from early B-cell progenitors. The data showed correlated activities of deregulated TALE-class members with particular BCP-ALL subtype markers, namely IRX2 with TCF3/E2A-fusions, IRX3 with ETV6/TEL-fusions, and MEIS1 with KMT2A/MLL-fusions. These correlations were also detected in BCP-ALL cell lines which served as experimental models. We performed siRNA-mediated knockdown experiments and reporter gene assays to analyze regulatory connections. The results showed mutual activation of IRX1 and TCF3. In contrast, IRX2 directly repressed wild-type TCF3 while the fusion gene TCF3::PBX1 lost the binding site for IRX2 and remained unaltered. IRX3 mutually activated fusion gene ETV6::RUNX1 while activating itself by aberrantly expressed transcription factor KLF15. Finally, KMT2A activated MEIS1 which in turn supported the expression of IRX3. In summary, we revealed normal TALE homeobox gene expression in early B-cell development and identified aberrant activities of IRX2, IRX3 and MEIS1 in particular subtypes of BCP-ALL. Thus, these TALE homeobox genes may serve as novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a rapidly progressing heterogeneous disease with a high mortality rate, which is characterized by hyperproliferation of atypical immature myeloid cells. The number of AML patients is expected to increase in the near future, due to the old-age-associated nature of AML and increased longevity in the human population. RUNX1 and CEBPA, key transcription factors (TFs) of hematopoiesis, are frequently and independently mutated in AML. RUNX1 and CEBPA can bind TET2 demethylase and attract it to their binding sites (TFBS) in cell lines, leading to DNA demethylation of the regions nearby. Since TET2 does not have a DNA-binding domain, TFs are crucial for its guidance to target genomic locations. In this paper, we show that RUNX1 and CEBPA mutations in AML patients affect the methylation of important regulatory sites that resulted in the silencing of several RUNX1 and CEBPA target genes, most likely in a TET2-dependent manner. We demonstrated that hypermethylation of TFBS in AML cells with RUNX1 mutations was associated with resistance to anticancer chemotherapy. Demethylation therapy restored expression of the RUNX1 target gene, BIK, and increased sensitivity of AML cells to chemotherapy. If our results are confirmed, mutations in RUNX1 could be an indication for prescribing the combination of cytotoxic and demethylation therapies.
Mixed-phenotype leukemia (MPAL) is a type of acute leukemia in which the blast population shows mixed features of myeloid, T-lymphoid, and/or B-lymphoid differentiation. MPALs are rare and carry a poor prognosis, thus, often pose both a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge. Conventionally, the diagnosis of MPAL requires either a single blast population with a lineage-defining phenotypic expression of multiple lineages (myeloid, B-cell and/or T-cell) (biphenotypic) or two distinct blast populations that each independently satisfy criteria for designation as AML, B-ALL, and/or T-ALL (bilineage). Given the rarity of MPAL, minimal studies have been performed to describe the genomic landscape of these neoplasms. IRB approval was obtained. Central MCC database was searched for any patient with a diagnosis of acute undifferentiated leukemia (AUL), acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage (ALAL), and MPAL. All patient diagnoses were manually reviewed by a hematopathologist to confirm the diagnosis of MPAL. Genomic and molecular data were collated from the EMR and bioinformatically from MCC genomics repositories. Twenty-eight patients with MPAL were identified. Thirteen were female and 15 were male. Average age was 56 years old (range = 28-81). Ten cases were biclonal and 18 were biphenotypic. Diagnoses were as follows: B/myeloid (n = 18), T/myeloid (n = 9), and T/B (n = 1). Cytogenetic analysis (Karyotype +/- FISH) was available for 27 patients. The most frequent recurrent abnormalities were complex karyotype (n = 8), BCR/ABL1 translocation (n = 6), Del 5q/-5 (n = 4), Polysomy 21 (n = 4). Mutational analysis was available for 18 patients wherein mutations were detected in 45 unique genes. The most frequently mutated genes were TP53 (7), RUNX1 (6), WT1 (4), MLL2 (3), FLT3 (3), CBL (2), ASXL1 (2), TET2 (2), MAP3K6 (2), MLL (2), and MAP3K1 (2). Targetable or potentially targetable biomarkers were found in 56% of cases. Overall survival was 19.5 months (range = 0-70 m). Ten patients were treated with an allogeneic stem cell transplant and had superior outcome (p = 0.0013). In one the largest series of MPAL cases to date, we corroborate previous findings with enriched detection of RUNX1 and FLT3-ITD mutations along with discovery of unreported mutations (MAP3K) that may be amenable to therapeutic manipulation. We also report the frequent occurrence of AML with MDS-related changes (AML-MRC)-defining cytogenetic abnormalities (26%). Finally, we show that those patients that received stem cell transplant had a better overall survival. Our findings support the need to genomically profile MPAL cases to exploit opportunities for targeted therapies in this orphan disease with dismal prognosis.
The tumor microenvironment (TME) is broadly implicated in tumorigenesis, as tumor cells interact with surrounding cells to influence the development and progression of the tumor. Blood vessels are a major component of the TME and are attributed to the creation of a hypoxic microenvironment, which is a common feature of advanced cancers and inflamed premalignant tissues. Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) proteins, a transcription factor family of developmental master regulators, are involved in vital cellular processes such as differentiation, proliferation, cell lineage specification, and apoptosis. Furthermore, the RUNX family is involved in the regulation of various oncogenic processes and signaling pathways as well as tumor suppressive functions, suggesting that the RUNX family plays a strategic role in tumorigenesis. In this review, we have discussed the relevant findings that describe the crosstalk of the RUNX family with the hypoxic TME and tumor angiogenesis or with their signaling molecules in cancer development and progression.
Heterozygous defects in runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) are causative of a familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancy (FPDMM). Because RUNX1-deficient animal models do not mimic bleeding disorder or leukemic risk associated with FPDMM, development of a proper model system is critical to understanding the underlying mechanisms of the observed phenotype and to identifying therapeutic interventions. We previously reported an in vitro megakaryopoiesis system comprising human CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells that recapitulated the FPDMM quantitative megakaryocyte defect through a decrease in RUNX1 expression via a lentiviral short hairpin RNA strategy. We now show that shRX-megakaryocytes have a marked reduction in agonist responsiveness. We then infused shRX-megakaryocytes into immunocompromised NOD scid gamma (NSG) mice and demonstrated that these megakaryocytes released fewer platelets than megakaryocytes transfected with a nontargeting shRNA, and these platelets had a diminished half-life. The platelets were also poorly responsive to agonists, unable to correct thrombus formation in NSG mice homozygous for a R1326H mutation in von Willebrand Factor (VWFR1326H), which switches the species-binding specificity of the VWF from mouse to human glycoprotein Ibα. A small-molecule inhibitor RepSox, which blocks the transforming growth factor β1 (TGFβ1) pathway and rescued defective megakaryopoiesis in vitro, corrected the thrombopoietic defect, defects in thrombus formation and platelet half-life, and agonist response in NSG/VWFR1326H mice. Thus, this model recapitulates the defects in FPDMM megakaryocytes and platelets, identifies previously unrecognized defects in thrombopoiesis and platelet half-life, and demonstrates for the first time, reversal of RUNX1 deficiency-induced hemostatic defects by a drug.
Mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) is a subtype of leukemia in which lymphoid and myeloid markers are co-expressed. Knowledge regarding the genetic features of MPAL is lacking due to its rarity and heterogeneity. Here, we applied an integrated genomic and transcriptomic approach to explore the molecular characteristics of 176 adult patients with MPAL, including 86 patients with T-lymphoid/myeloid MPAL (T/My MPAL-NOS), 42 with Ph+ MPAL, 36 with B-lymphoid/myeloid MPAL (B/My MPAL-NOS), 4 with t(v;11q23), and 8 with MPAL, NOS, rare types. Genetically, T/My MPAL-NOS was similar to B/T MPAL-NOS but differed from Ph+ MPAL and B/My MPAL-NOS. T/My MPAL-NOS exhibited higher CEBPA, DNMT3A, and NOTCH1 mutations. Ph+ MPAL demonstrated higher RUNX1 mutations. B/T MPAL-NOS showed higher NOTCH1 mutations. By integrating next-generation sequencing and RNA sequencing data of 89 MPAL patients, we defined eight molecular subgroups (G1-G8) with distinct mutational and gene expression characteristics. G1 was associated with CEBPA mutations, G2 and G3 with NOTCH1 mutations, G4 with BCL11B rearrangement and FLT3 mutations, G5 and G8 with BCR::ABL1 fusion, G6 with KMT2A rearrangement/KMT2A rearrangement-like features, and G7 with ZNF384 rearrangement/ZNF384 rearrangement-like characteristics. Subsequently, we analyzed single-cell RNA sequencing data from five patients. Groups G1, G2, G3, and G4 exhibited overexpression of hematopoietic stem cell disease-like and common myeloid progenitor disease-like signatures, G5 and G6 had high expression of granulocyte-monocyte progenitor disease-like and monocyte disease-like signatures, and G7 and G8 had common lymphoid progenitor disease-like signatures. Collectively, our findings indicate that integrative genomic and transcriptomic profiling may facilitate more precise diagnosis and develop better treatment options for MPAL.
PURPOSE: To test the efficacy of runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) inhibition with topical nanoemulsion containing Ro5-3335 (eNano-Ro5) in experimental ocular neovascularization.DESIGN: Preclinical experimental study.PARTICIPANTS: In vitro primary culture human retinal endothelial cell (HREC) culture. C57BL/6J 6- to 10-week-old male and female mice.METHODS: We evaluated the effect of eNano-Ro5 in cell proliferation, cell toxicity, and migration of HRECs. We used an alkali burn model of corneal neovascularization and a laser-induced model of choroidal neovascularization to test in vivo efficacy of eNano-Ro5 in pathologic angiogenesis in mice. We used mass spectrometry to measure penetration of Ro5-3335 released from the nanoemulsion in ocular tissues.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Neovascular area.RESULTS: RUNX1 inhibition reduced cell proliferation and migration in vitro. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed detectable levels of the active RUNX1 small-molecule inhibitor Ro5-3335 in the anterior and posterior segment of the mice eyes. Topical treatment with eNano-Ro5 significantly reduced corneal neovascularization and improved corneal wound healing after alkali burn. Choroidal neovascularization lesion size and leakage were significantly reduced after treatment with topical eNano-Ro5.CONCLUSIONS: Topical treatment with eNano-Ro5 is an effective and viable platform to deliver a small-molecule RUNX1 inhibitor. This route of administration offers advantages that could improve the management and outcomes of these sight-threatening conditions. Topical noninvasive delivery of RUNX1 inhibitor could be beneficial for many patients with pathologic ocular neovascularization.
Objective: To evaluate the outcomes and identify the prognostic factors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with Chinese Children's Cancer Group study ALL-2015 (CCCG-ALL-2015) protocol. Methods: There were two randomization studies in CCCG-ALL-2015 study. A total of 7 640 newly diagnosed ALL patients in 20 hospitals of multi-institutional study group between January 2015 and December 2019 were treated with unified protocol. CCCG-ALL-2015 protocol featured risk-directed therapy based on morphology, immunophenotype, and genetic features, and adjusted according to minimal residual disease (MRD) assay on day 19 and day 46 of induction, which totally omitted prophylactic cranial irradiation. Two randomized controlled trails were designed. Children with Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL (Ph+ALL) were randomly treated with dasatinib (Ph-D group) or imatinib (Ph-I group). During the latter half of continuation therapy, children were randomly treated with seven pulses of vincristine plus dexamethasone (group A) or not (group B). The survival rates of different groups were compared. Event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) curves were estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by Log-rank test. Cox proportional hazards model was used for multivariate analysis. Results: Of the 7 640 enrolled patients, there were 4 521 males and 3 119 females, 7 508 (98.3%) entered complete remission. The 5-year EFS was 60.1% (95%CI 49.8%-72.5%) in the Ph-D group and 39.4% (95%CI 26.9%-57.7%) in the Ph-I group (χ2=5.00, P=0.020). Between patients with lower risk (LR) and intermediate and higher risk (I/HR) treated with (group A) or without (group B) additional pulse of vincristine plus dexamethasone, there were no difference in 5-year EFS and OS. The one-sided 95% upper confidence bound for the difference in 5-year EFS and OS were 0.02 and 0.01 for LR, 0.05 and 0.01 for I/HR, establishing non-inferiority, lower than 0.05. The follow-up time was 3.5 (2.4,4.8) years. The 5-year OS was 90.9% (95%CI 90.2%-91.7%), and EFS was 80.1% (95%CI 79.0%-81.2%). The 5-year cumulative risk of any relapse was 15.3% (95%CI 14.3%-16.3%).The cumulative risk of isolated central nervous system (CNS) relapse was 1.9% (95%CI 1.6%-2.2%), and any CNS relapse 2.7% (95%CI 2.3%-3.1%). The 5-year cumulative risk of death during remission was 1.3% (95%CI 1.0%-1.6%). In the multivariate analysis, the independent factors associated with inferior EFS of patients with B-ALL were age≥10 years, male sex, white blood cell count ≥50×109/L, CNS2 or CNS3 status, BCR-ABL fusion, KMT2A rearrangements, without ETV6-RUNX1 fusion and the presence of MRD>0.01% at day 19 or 46 (all P<0.05). Among patients with T-ALL, the significant predictors for lower EFS were the BCR-ABL1 fusion and MRD≥0.10% at day 46 (both P<0.05). Conclusions: Patients treated with CCCG-ALL-2015 protocol without the use of prophylactic cranial irradiation have favorable outcomes, and the cumulative risk of isolated CNS relapse and cumulative risk of death during remission are low. Intensive chemotherapy including dasatinib yield superior results compared to imatinib in the treatment of Ph+ALL. Vincristine plus dexamethasone pulses can be omitted for ALL children without decrease in treatment ontcome during the latter half of continuation therapy.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDSs) are a heterogeneous group of hematologic malignancies with a propensity to progress to acute myeloid leukemia. Causal mutations in multiple classes of genes have been identified in patients with MDS with some patients harboring more than 1 mutation. Interestingly, double mutations tend to occur in different classes rather than the same class of genes, as exemplified by frequent cooccurring mutations in the transcription factor RUNX1 and the splicing factor SRSF2. This prototypic double mutant provides an opportunity to understand how their divergent functions in transcription and posttranscriptional regulation may be altered to jointly promote MDS. Here, we report a mouse model in which Runx1 knockout was combined with the Srsf2 P95H mutation to cause multilineage hematopoietic defects. Besides their additive and synergistic effects, we also unexpectedly noted a degree of antagonizing activity of single mutations in specific hematopoietic progenitors. To uncover the mechanism, we further developed a cellular model using human K562 cells and performed parallel gene expression and splicing analyses in both human and murine contexts. Strikingly, although RUNX1 deficiency was responsible for altered transcription in both single and double mutants, it also induced dramatic changes in global splicing, as seen with mutant SRSF2, and only their combination induced missplicing of genes selectively enriched in the DNA damage response and cell cycle checkpoint pathways. Collectively, these data reveal the convergent impact of a prototypic MDS-associated double mutant on RNA processing and suggest that aberrant DNA damage repair and cell cycle regulation critically contribute to MDS development.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Heart failure is a global epidemic that affects at least 26 million individuals globally and is becoming more prevalent. Despite advances in treatment strategies, survival and symptom management in individuals with heart failure remain exceptionally low. This review discusses emerging targets for the treatment of heart failure.RECENT FINDINGS: Recently, a number of targets are being investigated as prospective treatment possibilities for heart failure. These include targets like Runx1 transcription factor (RUNX1), milk fact globule-EFG factor 8 (MFGE8) protein and enzymes such as neuraminidase 1 (NEU1), G protein-coupled receptor kinase 5 (GRK5), G protein-coupled oestrogen receptor 1 (GPER1), urotensin-II receptor (UTR), cluster of differentiation 47 (CD47) and relaxin receptor 1 (RXFP1). On a worldwide level, heart failure is a developing epidemic with substantial morbidity and death. The number of individuals diagnosed with chronic heart failure is rising, and it is anticipated to surge by 46% by 2030. Appropriate heart failure treatment can have the greatest influence on prolonging patients' lives in the coming year. Targets discussed in this review may provide new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of heart failure.
Blood malignancies arise from the dysregulation of haematopoiesis. The type of blood cell and the specific order of oncogenic events initiating abnormal growth ultimately determine the cancer subtype and subsequent clinical outcome. HOXA9 plays an important role in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) prognosis by promoting blood cell expansion and altering differentiation; however, the function of HOXA9 in other blood malignancies is still unclear. Here, we highlight the biological switch and prognosis marker properties of HOXA9 in AML and chronic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN). First, we establish the ability of HOXA9 to stratify AML patients with distinct cellular and clinical outcomes. Then, through the use of a computational network model of MPN, we show that the self-activation of HOXA9 and its relationship to JAK2 and TET2 can explain the branching progression of JAK2/TET2 mutant MPN patients towards divergent clinical characteristics. Finally, we predict a connection between the RUNX1 and MYB genes and a suppressive role for the NOTCH pathway in MPN diseases.
Sevoflurane anesthesia is reported to repress neurogenesis of neural stem cells (NSCs), thereby affecting the brain development, but the underlying mechanism of sevoflurane on the proliferation of NSCs remains unclear. Thus, this study aims to discern the relationship between sevoflurane and NSC proliferation. Bioinformatics tools were employed to predict the expression of microRNA-18a (miR-18a) in 9-day-old neonatal rat hippocampal tissues after sevoflurane treatment and the downstream genes of miR-18a, followed by a series of assays to explore the relationship among miR-18a, runt related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), and β-catenin in the hippocampal tissues. NSCs were isolated from the hippocampal tissues and subjected to gain-/loss-of-function assays to investigate the interactions among miR-18a, RUNX1, and β-catenin in NSCs and their roles in NSC development. Bioinformatics analysis and experimental results confirmed high expression of miR-18a in rat hippocampal tissues and NSCs after sevoflurane treatment. Next, we found that miR-18a downregulated RUNX1 expression, while RUNX1 promoted NSC proliferation by activating the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway. The behavioral experiments also showed that sevoflurane caused nerve injury in rats, whilst RUNX1 overexpression protected rat neurodevelopment. Our findings uncovered that sevoflurane attenuated NSC proliferation via the miR-18a-meidated RUNX1/Wnt/β-catenin pathway, thereby impairing rat neurodevelopment.
To investigate the pathogenesis and the refractory/relapse mechanisms in patients with t(16;21)(p11;q22), we retrospectively analyzed the clinical data of six cases in our hospital and sixty-two cases reported in the literature. Among the patients in our hospital, five cases were diagnosed as acute leukemia, and one was myelodysplastic syndrome evolved to acute myeloid leukemia, harboring TLS/FUS-ERG fusion gene; all the cases were detected t(16;21)(p11;q22) translocation, and five cases showed additional chromosomal abnormalities. We firstly report a novel three-way translocation t(11;16;21)(q13;p11;q22), which may affect the prognosis of leukemia with TLS-ERG fusion gene because this patient shows a more satisfactory treatment effect and deeper remission. And we found patients with TLS-ERG are more likely to have bone and arthrosis pain. Besides, CD56 and CD123 were positive in these cases, which are related to poor prognosis and the character of refractory. Moreover, some gene mutations are involved, and GATA2 and SMAD4 mutations were identified when the disease progressed from myelodysplastic syndrome to leukemia. Among sixty-two patients reported in the literature, valid positive percent of CD56 and CD123 were 81% and 14.3%, respectively. Mutation of the RUNX1 gene was detected in four cases, and one patient had multiple mutations, including BCOR, PLCG1, DIS3, BRAF, JAK2, and JAK3. The prominent feature of leukemia carrying the TLS/FUS-ERG gene is its poor prognosis. The relevant mechanism includes new mutation, jumping translocation, different transcripts, and so on. The mechanism still acquaints scarcely, which requires further study.
The E26 transformation-specific or E-twenty-six (ETS) genes encode a superfamily of transcription factors involved in diverse biological processes. Here, we report the identification and characterization of a previously unidentified member of the ETS transcription factors, Spi2, that is found exclusively in the ray-finned fish kingdom. We show that the expression of spi2 is restricted to hemogenic endothelial cells (HECs) and to hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) in zebrafish. Using bacteria artificial chromosome transgenesis, we generate a spi2 reporter line, TgBAC(spi2:P2a-GFP), which manifests the GFP pattern recapitulating the endogenous spi2 expression. Genetic ablation of spi2 has little effect on HEC formation and the endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition, but results in compromised proliferation of HSPCs in the caudal hematopoietic tissue (CHT) during early development and in severe myeloid lineage defect in adulthood. Epistatic analysis shows that spi2 acts downstream of runx1 in regulating HSPC development in the CHT. Our study identifies Spi2 as an essential regulator for definitive hematopoietic cell development and creates a TgBAC(spi2:P2a-GFP) reporter line for tracking HECs, HSPCs, myeloid cells and thrombocytes from early development to adulthood.
Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) is characterized by chronic inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract that associates with, among others, increased risk of colorectal cancer. There is a growing evidence that miRNAs have important roles in pathological processes, such as inflammation or carcinogenesis. Understanding the molecular mechanisms such as alterations in microRNAome upon chronic intestinal inflammation is critical for understanding the exact pathomechanism of IBD. Hence, we conducted a genome wide microRNAome analysis by applying miRNA-Seq in a rat model of experimental colitis, validated the data by QPCR, examined the expression of a selection of precursor and mature miRNAs, performed in depth biological interpretation using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and tested the obtained results on samples derived from human patients. We identified specific, interdependent expression pattern of activator/repressor transcription factors, miRNAs and their direct targets in the inflamed colon samples. Particularly, decreased expression of the miR-200 family members (miR-200a/b/c,-141, and -429) and miR-27b correlates with the reduced level of their enhancers (HNF1B, E2F1), elevated expression of their repressors (ZEB2, NFKB1) and increased expression of their target genes (ZEB2, RUNX1). Moreover, the marked upregulation of six miR-27b target genes (IFI16, GCA, CYP1B1, RUNX1, MEF2C and MMP13) in the inflamed colon tissues is a possible direct consequence of the lack of repression due to the downregulated miRNA-27b expression. Our data indicate that changes in microRNAome are associated with the pathophysiology of IBD, consequently, microRNAs offer potential targets for the diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of IBD.
Relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients generally have a dismal prognosis and the treatment remains challenging. Due to the expression of CD7 on 30% AML and not on normal myeloid and erythroid cells, CD7 is an attractive target for immunotherapy of AML. CD7-targeted CAR T-cells had demonstrated encouraging efficacy in xenograft models of AML. We report here on the use of autologous CD7 CAR T-cells in the treatment of a relapsed/refractory AML patient with complex karyotype, TP53 deletion, FLT3-ITD mutation, and SKAP2-RUNX1 fusion gene. Before the CAR T-cell therapy, the patient achieved partial remission with IA regimen and attained complete remission after reinduction therapy (decitabine and venentoclax). Relapse occurred after consolidation (CLAG regimen). Then she failed CLIA regimen combined with venetoclax and exhibited resistance to FLT3 inhibitors. Bone marrow showed 20% blasts (CD7+ 95.6%). A total dose of 5 × 106/kg CD7 CAR T-cells was administered after the decitabine +FC regimen. Seventeen days after CAR T-cells infusion, she achieved morphologic leukemia-free state. The patient developed grade 3 cytokine release syndrome. No severe organ toxicity or immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome was observed. In summary, the autologous CD7 CAR T-cell therapy could be considered a potential approach for AML with CD7 expression (NCT04762485).Trial registration Clinical Trials.gov, NCT04762485. Registered on February 21, 2021, prospectively registered.
BACKGROUND: Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare disease of bone marrow failure. FA patients are prone to develop myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, the molecular clonal evolution of the progression from FA to MDS/AML remains elusive.METHODS: Herein, we performed a comprehensive genomic analysis using an FA patient (P1001) sample that transformed to MDS and subsequently AML, together with other three FA patient samples at the MDS stage.RESULTS: Our finding showed the existence of polyclonal pattern in these cases at MDS stage. The clonal evolution analysis of FA case (P1001) showed the mutations of UBASH3A, SF3B1, RUNX1 and ASXL1 gradually appeared at the later stage of MDS, while the IDH2 alteration become the dominant clone at the leukemia stage. Moreover, single-cell sequencing analyses further demonstrated a polyclonal pattern was present at either MDS or AML stages, whereas IDH2 mutated cell clones appeared only at the leukemia stage.CONCLUSIONS: We thus propose a clonal evolution model from FA to MDS and AML for this patient. The results of our study on the clonal evolution and mutated genes of the progression of FA to AML are conducive to understanding the progression of the disease that still perplexes us.
CONTEXT: In 2016, WHO put together a category of myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms with eosinophilia (MLN-Eo) with rearrangement of PDGFRA, PDGFRB, FGFR1, or PCM1-JAK2. Gene fusions involving FLT3 and JAK2 are considered potential provisional entities. Here, we describe the mutational landscape of MLN-Eo and clinical outcomes of upfront targeted TK inhibitor (TKI) therapy.DESIGN: We retrospectively reviewed clinical and molecular data on patients with MLN-Eos. Next-generation sequencing was performed using a customized or commercially available panel.RESULTS: Twenty-three patients had PDGFRA fusion or activating mutations; 4 PDGFRB fusion; 8 FGFR1 fusion; 2 JAK2 fusion; and 4 FLT3 fusion. Twelve (92%) had at least one other coexisting mutation. At least 2 patients harbored TET2, RUNX1, TP53, and PTPN11 mutations. Pathogenic PTPN11 mutation was present in all activating PDGFRA mutations but absent in other cases. Among 23 patients with the chronic-phase disease, 14 (61%) received upfront TKI. None transformed into blastic phase. Six patients with disease in the de novo blastic phase received upfront TKI and achieved complete remission. Upfront TKI use was associated with longer overall survival (OS) in univariate analysis (HR 0.065, 95% CI, 0.008-0.50. P =.008). The improved OS remained significant in a multivariate analysis (HR 0.043, 95% CI, 0.003-0.63, p = 0.021) when adjusted for sex, age, hypereosinophilia, PDGFRA/B fusion, complex cytogenetics, the blastic- phase, and transplant status.CONCLUSIONS: Patients with MLN-Eo have high frequency of secondary somatic mutations like other myeloid malignancies. TKI therapies are associated with excellent outcomes and should be used in the upfront setting.
CONTEXT: Advanced SM (AdvSM) comprises 3 subtypes: aggressive SM (ASM), SM with an associated hematologic neoplasm (SM-AHN), and mast cell leukemia (MCL). The patterns of organ damage, which have been defined by WHO, IWG, and modified IWG (mIWG) criteria, across the spectrum of AdvSM have not been well characterized.OBJECTIVE: 1) To describe the distribution of organ damage in AdvSM patients (pts) at initial presentation or at the time of trial enrollment; 2) To evaluate clinicopathologic and molecular correlates of organ damage.DESIGN: Observational study of adults with AdvSM.SETTING: Tertiary referral center.PATIENTS OR OTHER PARTICIPANTS: Our cohort included 240 AdvSM pts: 66 from the Stanford MPN registry and 174 from the phase I EXPLORER and phase II PATHFINDER studies of avapritinib in AdvSM.INTERVENTIONS: None.MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Hematologic and non-hematologic organ damage as defined by WHO, IWG, and mIWG criteria.RESULTS: Thirty-seven pts (15%) had ASM, 165 (69%) had SM-AHN, and 38 (16%) had MCL. Pts with MCL had the highest transfusion requirement and the largest liver and spleen volumes by imaging. In multivariate analyses comparing SM-AHN to ASM/MCL, SM-AHN pts had higher absolute neutrophil and monocyte counts and presence of SRSF2, ASXL1, or RUNX1 (S/A/R) mutations. ASM/MCL pts had higher tryptase levels and bone marrow mast cell burden. Compared to midostaurin-naïve pts, those who had received midostaurin had a greater bone marrow mast cell burden (P=0.06) but less frequently met WHO liver (P<0.001) and WHO malabsorption (P<0.001) criteria. Compared to pts with KIT D816V only, pts with ≥1 S/A/R mutations had lower median hemoglobin (P=0.02) and platelet count (P=0.02) and higher direct bilirubin (P=0.02), alkaline phosphatase (P=0.03), and spleen volume (P=0.06). They exhibited more WHO-defined cytopenias (P=0.007) and were more likely to meet WHO hypersplenism criteria (P=0.03).CONCLUSIONS: In AdvSM, patterns of organ damage reflect disease subtype, prior therapy, and mutation profile. These data can help inform enrollment of AdvSM pts into clinical trials that currently require ≥1 organ damage findings. Grant Acknowledgments: ASH HONORS Award, NIH grant P30CA124435.
BACKGROUND: The objectives of this study were to investigate the mutation profiles of targeted genes and copy number variations (CNVs) in normal cytogenetics (CN) pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML).METHODS: This prospective study was conducted from October 2018 to December 2020. The next-generation sequencing (NGS) and chromosomal microarray analyses (CMA) were performed in pediatric CN-AML patients.RESULTS: Out of 94 children (aged ≤18 years), 70 patients with AML (24 excluded) underwent conventional karyotyping/cytogenetic analyses. Forty-five (64.3%) of patients had abnormal/ recurrent cytogenetic abnormalities and 25 (35.7%) had normal cytogenetics. Twenty-three out of 25 CN-AML were further processed for gene mutation profile and CNVs using NGS and CMA, respectively. Twenty-two out of 23 (95.7%) patients were detected to have mutations in various genes. The common mutations were: NRAS, NPM1, CEBPA, KRAS, KIT, RUNX1, NOTCH1, WT1, GATA1, GATA2, FLT3, KMT2D, FLT3-TKD, and PHF6. Copy number variations (CNVs) were detected in nine patients (39%), and eight (34.8%) had a long contiguous stretch of homozygosity (LCSH) /loss of heterozygosity (LOH). An LCSH was detected on chromosomes 5, 7, 11, and 19. The gains were more common than losses (8 vs 2). The gains were observed on chromosomes 8, 9, 14, 19, 21, and 22, and the losses were detected on chromosomes 7 and 10. Monosomy was observed in three patients. Three patients (monosomy7, n = 2, and FLT-ITD, n = 1) were reclassified into the high-risk category. Post-induction, complete remission was achieved in all evaluable patients.CONCLUSION: CN-AML patients have genetic abnormalities that can be detected by more advanced techniques like NGS and CMA. These genetic abnormalities play a role in risk stratification that may remain hidden in otherwise CN-AML.
Copy number variation (CNV), an important source of genomic structural variation, can disturb genetic structure, dosage, regulation and expression, and is associated with phenotypic diversity and adaptation to local environments in mammals. In the present study, 24 resequencing datasets were used to characterize CNVs in three ecotypic populations of Tibetan sheep and assess CNVs related to domestication and adaptation in Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. A total of 87,832 CNV events accounting for 0.3% of the sheep genome were detected. After merging the overlapping CNVs, 2777 CNV regions (CNVRs) were obtained, among which 1098 CNVRs were shared by the three populations. The average length of these CNVRs was more than 3 kb, and duplication events were more frequent than deletions. Functional analysis showed that the shared CNVRs were significantly enriched in 56 GO terms and 18 KEGG pathways that were mainly concerned with ABC transporters, olfactory transduction and oxygen transport. Moreover, 188 CNVRs overlapped with 97 quantitative trait loci (QTLs), such as growth and carcass QTLs, immunoglobulin QTLs, milk yield QTLs and fecal egg counts QTLs. PCDH15, APP and GRID2 overlapped with body weight QTLs. Furthermore, Vst analysis showed that RUNX1, LOC101104348, LOC105604082 and PAG11 were highly divergent between Highland-type Tibetan Sheep (HTS) and Valley-type Tibetan sheep (VTS), and RUNX1 and LOC101111988 were significantly differentiated between VTS and Oura-type Tibetan sheep (OTS). The duplication of RUNX1 may facilitate the hypoxia adaptation of OTS and HTS in Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, which deserves further research in detail. In conclusion, for the first time, we represented the genome-wide distribution characteristics of CNVs in Tibetan sheep by resequencing, and provided a valuable genetic variation resource, which will facilitate the elucidation of the genetic basis underlying the distinct phenotypic traits and local adaptation of Tibetan sheep.
BACKGROUND: Leukemic hematopoietic cells acquire enhanced self-renewal capacity and impaired differentiation. The emergence of symptomatic leukemia also requires the acquisition of a clonal proliferative advantage. Untreated leukemia patients usually experience an aggressive process. However, spontaneous remission occasionally occurs in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), most frequently after recovery from a febrile episode, and this is generally attributed to the triggering of antineoplastic immunity. There may be another explanation for the spontaneous remission as implicated in this paper.CASE SUMMARY: A 63-year-old Chinese man presented with high fever, abdominal pain and urticaria-like skin lesions. He was diagnosed with AML-M4 with t(8;21) (q22;q22)/RUNX1-RUNX1T1 based on morphological, immunological, cytogenetic and molecular analyses. He had a complex chromosome rea-rrangement of 48,XY,t(8;21)(q22;q22),+13,+13[9]/49,idem,+mar[9]/49,idem,+8[2]. He also had a mutated tyrosine kinase domain in fms-like tyrosine kinase 3 gene. He was treated with antibiotics and glucocorticoids for gastrointestinal infection and urticaria-like skin lesions. The infection and skin lesions were quickly resolved. Unexpectedly, he achieved hematological remission along with resolution of the febrile episode, gastrointestinal symptoms and skin lesions. Notably, after relapse, repeating these treatments resulted in a return to hematological remission. Unfortunately, he demonstrated strong resistance to antibiotic and glucocorticoid treatment after the second relapse and died of sepsis from bacterial infection with multidrug resistance. The main clinical feature of this patient was that symptomatic AML emerged with flaring of the gut inflammatory disorder and it subsided after resolution of the inflammation. Learning from the present case raises the possibility that in a subgroup of AML patients, the proliferative advantage of leukemia cells may critically require the presence of inflammatory stresses.CONCLUSION: Inflammatory stresses, most likely arising from gastrointestinal infection, may sustain the growth and survival advantage of leukemic cells.
Generalized vitiligo (GV) is an autoimmune skin disease characterized by bilateral white patches over the entire body. Regulatory T cells (Tregs) maintain peripheral tolerance; however, they are found to be reduced in numbers and function in vitiligo patients. The exact mechanism for reduced Treg suppressive capacity is unknown. Therefore, we aimed to assess transcript levels of Tregs-associated immunosuppressive genes (GZMB, NRP1, PDCD1, FASLG, and TNFRS18), regulatory molecules of Tregs suppressive function (SERPINB9, ITPR1, and UBASH3A), and Treg-associated transcription factors (GATA2, GATA3, RUNX1, STAT3, and STAT5) in 52 GV patients and 48 controls by real-time PCR (qPCR). We found significantly reduced GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in GV Tregs compared to controls (p = 0.03, p = 0.023, p = 0.0045, and p < 0.0001, respectively). There were 0.44-, 0.45-, 0.32-, and 0.54-fold decrease in GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in GV Tregs. Additionally, disease activity and severity-based analyses revealed significantly decreased GZMB (p = 0.019 and 0.034), SERPINB9 (p = 0.031 and p = 0.035), and ITPR1 (p = 0.0003 and p = 0.034) transcripts in active vitiligo and severe GV patients' Tregs. Interestingly, we found a positive correlation for ITPR1 with GZMB (r = 0.45, p = 0.0009) and SERPINB9 (r = 0.52, p = 0.001) transcripts in GV Tregs. Moreover, we found positive correlation for percentage Treg mediated suppression of CD4+ and CD8+T cells with ITPR1 (r = 0.54; r = 0.49), GZMB (r = 0.61; r = 0.58), NRP1 (r = 0.55; r = 0.52), and SERPINB9 (r = 0.56; r = 0.48) in GV Tregs. Further, calcium treatment of Tregs resulted into significantly increased ITPR1, SERPINB9, and GZMB transcripts in GV Tregs (p = 0.023, p = 0.0345, p = 0.02). Overall, our results for the first time revealed the crucial role of GZMB, NRP1, SERPINB9, and ITPR1 transcripts in decreased Treg suppressive capacity leading to GV pathogenesis, progression, and severity. In addition, our study highlighted that ITPR1 might be linked with decreased GZMB and NRP1 expression in GV Tregs. Moreover, our study for the first time suggest that increased SERPINB9 transcripts may lead to endogenous granzyme B-mediated Tregs apoptosis, and calcium treatment of Tregs may improve the Treg suppressive capacity. These findings may further aid in development of Treg-based therapeutics for GV.
Megakaryocytes (Mks) in bone marrow are heterogeneous in terms of polyploidy. They not only produce platelets but also support the self-renewal of hematopoietic stem cells and regulate immune responses. Yet, how the diverse functions are generated from the heterogeneous Mks is not clear at the molecular level. Advances in single-cell RNA seq analysis from several studies have revealed that bone marrow Mks are heterogeneous and can be clustered into 3 to 4 subpopulations: a subgroup that is adjacent to the hematopoietic stem cells, a subgroup expressing genes for platelet biogenesis, and a subgroup expressing immune-responsive genes, the so-called immune Mks that exist in both humans and mice. Immune Mks are predominantly in the low-polyploid (≤8 N nuclei) fraction and also exist in the lung. Protein arginine methyltransferase 1 (PRMT1) expression is positively correlated with the expression of genes involved in immune response pathways and is highly expressed in immune Mks. In addition, we reported that PRMT1 promotes the generation of low-polyploid Mks. From this perspective, we highlighted the data suggesting that PRMT1 is essential for the generation of immune Mks via its substrates RUNX1, RBM15, and DUSP4 that we reported previously. Thus, we suggest that protein arginine methylation may play a critical role in the generation of proinflammatory platelet progeny from immune Mks, which may affect many immune, thrombotic, and inflammatory disorders.
Myc is a powerful transcription factor implicated in epigenetic reprogramming, cellular plasticity, and rapid growth as well as tumorigenesis. Cancer in skeletal muscle is extremely rare despite marked and sustained Myc induction during loading-induced hypertrophy. Here, we investigated global, actively transcribed, stable, and myonucleus-specific transcriptomes following an acute hypertrophic stimulus in mouse plantaris. With these datasets, we define global and Myc-specific dynamics at the onset of mechanical overload-induced muscle fiber growth. Data collation across analyses reveals an under-appreciated role for the muscle fiber in extracellular matrix remodeling during adaptation, along with the contribution of mRNA stability to epigenetic-related transcript levels in muscle. We also identify Runx1 and Ankrd1 (Marp1) as abundant myonucleus-enriched loading-induced genes. We observed that a strong induction of cell cycle regulators including Myc occurs with mechanical overload in myonuclei. Additionally, in vivo Myc-controlled gene expression in the plantaris was defined using a genetic muscle fiber-specific doxycycline-inducible Myc-overexpression model. We determined Myc is implicated in numerous aspects of gene expression during early-phase muscle fiber growth. Specifically, brief induction of Myc protein in muscle represses Reverbα, Reverbβ, and Myh2 while increasing Rpl3, recapitulating gene expression in myonuclei during acute overload. Experimental, comparative, and in silico analyses place Myc at the center of a stable and actively transcribed, loading-responsive, muscle fiber-localized regulatory hub. Collectively, our experiments are a roadmap for understanding global and Myc-mediated transcriptional networks that regulate rapid remodeling in postmitotic cells. We provide open webtools for exploring the five RNA-seq datasets as a resource to the field.
The Philadelphia-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are divided in three major groups: polycythemia vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (ET), and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). The 2016 WHO classification incorporates also prefibrotic PMF (pre-PMF) and overt PMF. This study aimed to discriminate the clinical features, genetic alterations, and outcomes in patients with prefibrotic, overt PMF, and secondary MF (SMF). This study included 229 patients with diagnosed myelofibrosis (MF). Among 229 patients, 67 (29%), 122 (53%), and 40 (18%) were confirmed as SMF, overt PMF, and pre-PMF, respectively. The JAK2 V617F mutation was differentially distributed in SMF and PMF, contradictory to CALR and MPL mutations. Regarding nondriver mutations, the occurrence of ASXL1 mutations differed between PMF and SMF or pre-PMF. The three-year overall survival was 91.5%, 85.3%, and 94.8% in SMF, overt PMF, and pre-PMF groups. Various scoring systems could discriminate the overall survival in PMF but not in SMF and pre-PMF. Still, clinical features including anemia and thrombocytopenia were poor prognostic factors throughout the myelofibrosis, whereas mutations contributed differently. Molecular grouping by wild-type SF3B1 and SRSF2/RUNX1/U2AF1/ASXL1/TP53 mutations showed inferior progression-free survival (PFS) in PMF, SMF, and pre-PMF. We determined the clinical and genetic features related to poor prognosis in myelofibrosis.
A rare but clinically important diagnostic dilemma arises when cases meet the criteria for both acute myeloid leukemia with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MRC) and mixed phenotype acute leukemia, especially those that evolve from myelodysplastic syndrome. We describe a 56-year-old male patient who presented with cytopenias and was initially diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome with single lineage dysplasia. Nearly 1 year later, this patient progressed to acute leukemia, and his blast cells simultaneously expressed T-lymphoid and myeloid antigens. Cytogenetic analysis showed a 20q deletion, and next-generation sequencing showed mutations of ASXL1, NRAS, PHF6, RUNX1, TP53, and PIGA. He was diagnosed with AML-MRC with blasts of the mixed T/myeloid phenotype according to the latest World Health Organization guidelines. In accordance with the treatment principles of AML-MRC, we chose an AML-like regimen for four cycles, but the patient did not achieve remission. Finally, we adhered to the treatment principles of mixed phenotype acute leukemia, and he achieved remission after a course of ALL-like regimen chemotherapy.
Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells can differentiate into all types of blood cells. Regulatory mechanisms underlying pluripotency in progenitors, such as the ability of lymphoid progenitor cells to differentiate into T-lineage, remain unclear. We have previously reported that LIM domain only 2 (Lmo2), a bridging factor in large transcriptional complexes, is essential to retain the ability of lymphoid progenitors to differentiate into T-lineage. However, biochemical characterization of Lmo2 protein complexes in physiological hematopoietic progenitors remains obscure. Here, we identified approximately 600 Lmo2-interacting molecules in a lymphoid progenitor cell line by two-step affinity purification with LC-MS/MS analysis. Zinc finger and BTB domain containing 1 (Zbtb1) and CBFA2/RUNX1 partner transcriptional corepressor 3 (Cbfa2t3) were found to be the functionally important binding partners of Lmo2. We determined CRISPR/Cas9-mediated acute disruption of Zbtb1 or Cbfa2t3 in the lymphoid progenitor or bone marrow-derived primary hematopoietic progenitor cells causes significant defects in the initiation of T-cell development when Notch signaling is activated. Our transcriptome analysis of Zbtb1- or Cbfa2t3-deficient lymphoid progenitors revealed that Tcf7 was a common target for both factors. Additionally, ChIP-seq analysis showed that Lmo2, Zbtb1, and Cbfa2t3 cobind to the Tcf7 upstream enhancer region, which is occupied by the Notch intracellular domain/RBPJ transcriptional complex after Notch stimulation, in lymphoid progenitors. Moreover, transduction with Tcf7 restored the defect in the T-lineage potential of Zbtb1-deficient lymphoid progenitors. Thus, in lymphoid progenitors, the Lmo2/Zbtb1/Cbfa2t3 complex directly binds to the Tcf7 locus and maintains responsiveness to the Notch-mediated inductive signaling to facilitate T-lineage differentiation.
Oncoprotein AML1-ETO (AE) derived from t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is typically present in a portion of French-American-British-M2 subtype of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Although these patients have relatively favorable prognoses, substantial numbers of them would relapse after conventional therapy. Here, we explored whether reinforcing the endogenous differentiation potential of t(8;21) AML cells would diminish the associated malignancy. In doing so, we noticed an expansion of immature erythroid blasts featured in both AML1-ETO9a (AE9a) and AE plus c-KIT (N822K) (AK) murine leukemic models. Interestingly, in the AE9a murine model, a spontaneous step-wise erythroid differentiation path, as characterized by the differential expression of CD43/c-Kit and the upregulation of several key erythroid transcription factors (TFs), accompanied the decline or loss of leukemia-initiating potential. Notably, overexpression of one of the key erythroid TFs, Ldb1, potently disrupted the repopulation of AE9a leukemic cells in vivo, suggesting a new promising intervention strategy of t(8;21) AML through enforcing their erythroid differentiation.
INTRODUCTION: Prognosis of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), particularly the group with lower-risk disease (LR-MDS) is very heterogeneous. Several studies have described the prognostic value of recurrent somatic mutations in MDS including all risk categories. Recently, the incorporation of genomic data to clinical parameters defined the new Molecular International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-M).MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, we evaluated the impact of molecular profile in a series of 181 patients with LR-MDS and non-proliferative chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.RESULTS: Epigenetic regulators (TET2, ASXL1) and splicing (SF3B1) were the most recurrent mutated pathways. In univariate analysis, RUNX1 or TP53 mutations correlated with lower median overall survival (OS). In contrast, SF3B1 mutation was associated with prolonged median OS [95 months (95% IC, 32-157) vs. 33 months (95% CI, 19-46) in unmutated patients (P < 0.01)]. In a multivariate Cox regression model, RUNX1 mutations independently associated with shorter OS, while SF3B1 mutation retained its favorable impact on outcome (HR: 0.24, 95% CI, 0.1-0.5; P = 0.001). In addition, TP53 or RUNX1 mutations were identified as predictive covariates for the probability of leukemic progression (P < 0.001).CONCLUSION: Incorporation of molecular testing in LR-MDS identified a subset of patients with expected poorer outcome, either due to lower survival or probability of leukemic progression.
Mast cell leukemia (MCL) is a rare subtype of systemic mastocytosis defined by ≥20% mast cells (MC) on a bone marrow aspirate. We evaluated 92 patients with MCL from the European Competence Network on Mastocytosis registry. Thirty-one (34%) patients had a diagnosis of MCL with an associated hematologic neoplasm (MCL-AHN). Chronic MCL (lack of C-findings) comprised 14% of patients, and only 4.5% had "leukemic MCL" (≥10% circulating MCs). KIT D816V was found in 62/85 (73%) evaluable patients; 9 (11%) individuals exhibited alternative KIT mutations, and no KIT variants were detected in 14 (17%) subjects. Ten evaluable patients (17%) had an abnormal karyotype and the poor-risk SRSF2, ASXL1, and RUNX1 (S/A/R) mutations were identified in 16/36 (44%) patients who underwent next-generation sequencing. Midostaurin was the most common therapy administered to 65% of patients and 45% as first-line therapy. The median overall survival (OS) was 1.6 years. In multivariate analysis (S/A/R mutations excluded owing to low event rates), a diagnosis of MCL-AHN (hazard ratio [HR], 4.7; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.7-13.0; P = .001) and abnormal karyotype (HR, 5.6; 95% CI, 1.4-13.3; P = .02) were associated with inferior OS; KIT D816V positivity (HR, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.11-0.98; P = .04) and midostaurin treatment (HR, 0.32; 95% CI, 0.08-0.72; P = .008) were associated with superior OS. These data provide the most comprehensive snapshot of the clinicopathologic, molecular, and treatment landscape of MCL to date, and should help further inform subtyping and prognostication of MCL.
Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) is a common pancreatic precancerous lesion, with increasing incidence in recent years. However, the mechanisms of IPMN progression into invasive cancer remain unclear. The mRNA expression data of IPMN/PAAD patients were extracted from the TCGA and GEO databases. First, based on GSE19650, we analyzed the molecular alterations, tumor stemness, immune landscape, and transcriptional regulation of IPMN progression. The results indicated that gene expression changed dramatically, specifically at the intraductal papillary-mucinous adenoma (IPMA) stage. Gene ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (GSEA) pathway analyses showed that glycoprotein-related, cell cycle, and P53 pathways displayed the most significant changes during progression. With IPMN progression, tumor stemness increased continuously, and KRAS, ERBB3, RUNX1, and ELF3 are essential driver genes affecting tumor stemness. Motif analysis suggested that KLF4 may be a specific transcription factor that regulates gene expression in the IPMA stage, while MYB and MYBL1 control gene expression in the IPMC and invasive stages, respectively. Then, GSE19650 and GSE71729 transcriptome data were combined to perform the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) method and Cox regression analysis to develop an 11-gene prediction model (KCNK1, FHL2, LAMC2, CDCA7, GPX3, C7, VIP, HBA1, BTG2, MT1E, and LYVE1) to predict the prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients. The reliability of the model was validated in the GSE71729 and TCGA databases. Finally, 11 additional IPMN patients treated in our hospital were included, and the immune microenvironment changes during IPMN progression were analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). IHC results suggest that Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and macrophages may be key in the formation of immunosuppressive microenvironment of IPMN progression. Our study deepens our understanding of IPMN progression, especially the changes in the immune microenvironment. The findings of this work may contribute to the development of new therapeutic strategies for IPMN.
The molecular consequences of cancer associated mutations in Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) linked factors are not very well understood. Here, we interrogated the COSMIC database for missense mutations associated with the RUNX1 protein, that is frequently mis-regulated in AML, where we sought to identify recurrently mutated positions at the DNA-interacting interface. Indeed, six of the mutated residues, out of a total 417 residues examined within the DNA binding domain, evidenced reduced DNA association in in silico predictions. Further, given the prominence of RUNX1's compromised function in AML, we asked the question if the mutations themselves might alter RUNX1's interaction (off-target) with known FDA-approved drug molecules, including three currently used in treating AML. We identified several AML-associated mutations in RUNX1 that were calculated to enhance RUNX1's interaction with specific drugs. Specifically, we retrieved data from the COSMIC database for cancer-associated mutations of RUNX1 by using R package "data.table" and "ggplot2" modules. In the presence of DNA and/or drug, we used docking scores and energetics of the complexes as tools to evaluate predicted interaction strengths with RUNX1. For example, we performed predictions of drug binding pockets involving Enasidenib, Giltertinib, and Midostaurin (AML associated), as well as ten different published cancer associated drug compounds. Docking of wild type RUNX1 with these 13 different cancer-associated drugs indicates that wild-type RUNX1 has a lower efficiency of binding while RUNX1 mutants R142K, D171N, R174Q, P176H, and R177Q suggested higher affinity of drug association. Literature evidence support our prediction and suggests the mutation R174Q affects RUNX1 DNA binding and could lead to compromised function. We conclude that specific RUNX1 mutations that lessen DNA binding facilitate the binding of a number of tested drug molecules. Further, we propose that molecular modeling and docking studies for RUNX1 in the presence of DNA and/or drugs enables evaluation of the potential impact of RUNX1 cancer associated mutations in AML.
Splicing factor SF3B1 mutation occurs in 20-30% of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and myelodysplasia/myeloproliferative neoplasm (MDS/MPN), particularly those with ring sideroblasts (RS), and rarely in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In this study, we performed a comprehensive evaluation of 77 SF3B1-mutated myeloid neoplasms (45 MDS, 18 MDS/MPN, 13 AML, and 1 MPN), including their clinical presentations, morphologic features, cytogenetic studies, and targeted next-generation sequencing. Our study demonstrated that concurrent gene mutations were very different in SF3B1-mutated MDS, MDS/MPN, and AML. MDS cases were frequently characterized by either sole SF3B1 mutation or in combination with TET2 mutation. Acquiring additional mutations in transcription factors, such as RUNX1 and GATA2, were associated with increased blasts and progression to AML in patients with MDS or MDS/MPN. Our study also demonstrated that SF3B1-mutated MDS/MPN was not only associated with thrombocytosis (5/18, 27.7%), defined by the current WHO classification as MDS/MPN-RS-T, but also associated with neutrophilia (6/18, 33.3%), monocytosis (6/18, 33.3%), and mastocytosis (1/18, 5.6%). Our results indicate that although SF3B1-mutated myeloid neoplasms in general have a good prognosis, evaluation of the concurrent gene mutational profile is important for risk stratification. In addition, our study, in combination with other published data, suggests that the category of MDS/MPN-RS-T in the current WHO classification could be expanded to include SF3B1-mutated MDS/MPN-RS with peripheral leukocytosis such as neutrophilia and monocytosis.
RUNX1-mutated (mRUNX1) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has historically been associated with poor outcomes in the setting of conventional chemotherapy. The prognostic impact of mRUNX1 AML is not well-established in the current era of lower-intensity treatment regimens incorporating venetoclax. We retrospectively analyzed 907 patients with newly diagnosed AML, including 137 patients with mRUNX1 AML, who underwent first-line therapy with intensive chemotherapy (IC), low-intensity therapy without venetoclax (LIT without VEN), or LIT with VEN. When stratified by RUNX1 status, there was no statistically significant difference in outcomes between mRUNX1 and wild-type (wtRUNX1) AML, regardless of therapy received. However, among patients who received LIT with VEN, there was a trend towards superior overall survival (OS) in those with mRUNX1 AML (median OS for mRUNX1 vs. wtRUNX1: 25.1 vs. 11.3 months; 2-year OS 54% vs. 33%; p = 0.12). In patients without another adverse-risk cyto-molecular feature, the presence of mRUNX1 conferred inferior OS in patients who received IC (p = 0.02) or LIT without VEN (p = 0.003) but not in those who received LIT with VEN (mRUNX1 vs. wtRUNX1: 25.1 vs. 30.0 months; 2-year OS 59% vs. 54%; p = 0.86). A multivariate analysis showed possible interaction between RUNX1 mutation status and treatment, suggesting a differential prognostic impact of RUNX1 mutations when patients received IC versus LIT with VEN. In summary, the prognostic impact of mRUNX1 AML may be treatment-dependent, and the presence of RUNX1 mutations may not impact clinical outcomes when venetoclax-based regimens are used.
Erratum in    Commun Biol. 2022 Sep 27;5(1):1021.
Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cells (pDC) are type I interferon (IFN)-producing cells that play a key role in immune responses. Two major types of neoplastic counterparts for pDC are now discriminated: Blastic pDC Neoplasm (BPDCN) and Mature pDC Proliferation (MPDCP), associated with myeloid neoplasm. Two types of MPDCP are now better described: Chronic MyeloMonocytic Leukemia with pDC expansion (pDC-CMML) and Acute Myeloid Leukemia with pDC expansion (pDC-AML). Differential diagnosis between pDC-AML and BPDCN is particularly challenging, and genomic features can help for diagnosis. Here, we systematically review the cytogenetic, molecular, and transcriptional characteristics of BPDCN and pDC-AML. BPDCN are characterized by frequent complex karyotypes with recurrent MYB/MYC rearrangements as well as recurrent deletions involving ETV6, IKZF1, RB1, and TP53 loci. Epigenetic and splicing pathways are also particularly mutated, while original processes are dysregulated, such as NF-kB, TCF4, BCL2, and IFN pathways; neutrophil-specific receptors; and cholinergic signaling. In contrast, cytogenetic abnormalities are limited in pDC-AML and are quite similar to other AML. Interestingly, RUNX1 is the most frequently mutated gene (70% of cases). These typical genomic features are of potential interest for diagnosis, and also from a prognostic or therapeutic perspective.
Despite emerging molecular information on chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), patient outcome remains unsatisfactory and little is known about the transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In a single-center cohort of 219 CMML patients, we explored the potential correlation between clinical features, gene mutations, and treatment regimens with overall survival (OS) and clonal evolution into AML. The most commonly detected mutations were TET2, SRSF2, ASXL1, and RUNX1. Median OS was 34 months and varied according to age, cytogenetic risk, FAB, CPSS and CPSS-Mol categories, and number of gene mutations. Hypomethylating agents were administered to 37 patients, 18 of whom responded. Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT) was performed in 22 patients. Two-year OS after alloSCT was 60.6%. Six patients received targeted therapy with IDH or FLT3 inhibitors, three of whom attained a long-lasting response. AML transformation occurred in 53 patients and the analysis of paired samples showed changes in gene mutation status. Our real-world data emphasize that the outcome of CMML patients is still unsatisfactory and alloSCT remains the only potentially curative treatment. However, targeted therapies show promise in patients with specific gene mutations. Complete molecular characterization can help to improve risk stratification, understand transformation, and personalize therapy.
The Runt-related transcription factor (Runx) family has been suggested to play roles in stem cell regulation, tissue development, and oncogenesis in various tissues/organs. In this study, we investigated the possible functions of Runx1 and Runx3 in keratinocyte differentiation. Both Runx1 and Runx3 proteins were detected in primary cultures of mouse keratinocytes. Proteins were localized in the nuclei of undifferentiated keratinocytes but translocated to the cytoplasm of differentiated cells. The siRNA-mediated inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression increased expression of keratin 1 and keratin 10, which are early differentiation markers of keratinocytes. In contrast, overexpression of Runx1 and Runx3 suppressed keratin 1 and keratin 10 expression. Endogenous Runx1 and Runx3 proteins were associated with the promoter sequences of keratin 1 and keratin 10 genes in undifferentiated but not differentiated keratinocytes. In mouse skin, the inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression by keratinocyte-specific gene targeting increased the ratios of keratin 1- and keratin 10-positive cells in the basal layer of the epidermis. On the other hand, inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression did not alter the proliferation capacity of cultured or epidermal keratinocytes. These results suggest that Runx1 and Runx3 likely function to directly inhibit differentiation-induced expression of keratin 1 and keratin 10 genes but are not involved in the regulation of keratinocyte proliferation.
Topoisomerase inhibitors are widely used in cancer chemotherapy. However, one of the potential long-term adverse effects of such therapy is acute leukemia. A key feature of such therapy-induced acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML) is recurrent chromosomal translocations involving AML1 (RUNX1) or MLL (KMT2A) genes. The formation of chromosomal translocation depends on the spatial proximity of translocation partners and the mobility of the DNA ends. It is unclear which of these two factors might be decisive for recurrent t-AML translocations. Here, we used fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and chromosome conformation capture followed by sequencing (4C-seq) to investigate double-strand DNA break formation and the mobility of broken ends upon etoposide treatment, as well as contacts between translocation partner genes. We detected the separation of the parts of the broken AML1 gene, as well as the increased mobility of these separated parts. 4C-seq analysis showed no evident contacts of AML1 and MLL with loci, implicated in recurrent t-AML translocations, either before or after etoposide treatment. We suggest that separation of the break ends and their increased non-targeted mobility-but not spatial predisposition of the rearrangement partners-plays a major role in the formation of these translocations.
Bone cancer pain is a common symptom in cancer patients with bone metastases and its underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Here, we report that Runx1 directly upregulates the transcriptional activity of P2X3 receptor (P2X3R) gene promoter in PC12 cells. Knocking down Runx1 in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons suppresses the functional upregulation of P2X3R, attenuates neuronal hyperexcitability and pain hypersensitivity in tumor-bearing rats, whereas overexpressing Runx1 promotes P2X3R gene transcription in DRG neurons, induces neuronal hyperexcitability and pain hypersensitivity in naïve rats. Activation of GDNF-GFRα1-Ret-ERK signaling is required for Runx1-mediated P2X3R gene transcription in DRG neurons, and contributes to neuronal hyperexcitability and pain hypersensitivity in tumor-bearing rats. These findings indicate that the Runx1-mediated P2X3R gene transcription resulted from activation of GDNF-GFRα1-Ret-ERK signaling contributes to the sensitization of DRG neurons and pathogenesis of bone cancer pain. Our findings identify a potentially targetable mechanism that may cause bone metastasis-associated pain in cancer patients.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease, characterized by clonal expansion of undifferentiated myeloid precursors, leading to alterations in hematopoiesis and bone marrow failure. Characteristic chromosomal abnormalities in AML are translocations t(8;21), inv(16), t(15;17), t(9;22), as well as mutations of genes that regulate proliferation and survival (FLT 3, PTPN 11, ETV 6/PDGFB), or genes responsible for differentiation and apoptosis (RUNX-1/RUNX1T1, PML/RARA, KMT2A, CEBPA and CBFB). Amplification of RUNX1 is a rare event in AML. Herein we described a 60-year-old patient that was admitted to the hospital due to a clinical picture of symptoms of acute anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukocytosis, and profuse nasal bleeding, hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, and gallstones. The blood cell count indicated the presence of 72% blasts. The bone marrow also showed 97% of blasts of myeloid lineage. The flow cytometry study also showed findings compatible with AML (MPOneg/+, CD34+, CD19neg /+d, CD117+, CD38neg /+, HLA-DR ++, CD13neg /+, CD33neg, CD15neg, D56neg, CD123+, CD7neg, CD11bneg, CD64neg, CD41aneg, which represented 68% of the pathological cellularity). Chromosome analysis showed additional copies of an isochromosome 21q. FISH studies revealed five copies of RUNX1. Amplification of RUNX1 is a rare event in AML with only a few cases reported in the literature (mainly therapy related AML) and it is usually associated with poor prognosis.
Myeloid malignancies develop through the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations that dysregulate hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) self-renewal, stimulate HSC proliferation and result in differentiation defects. The polycomb group (PcG) and trithorax group (TrxG) of epigenetic regulators act antagonistically to regulate the expression of genes key to stem cell functions. The genes encoding these proteins, and the proteins that interact with them or affect their occupancy at chromatin, are frequently mutated in myeloid malignancies. PcG and TrxG proteins are regulated by Enhancers of Trithorax and Polycomb (ETP) proteins. ASXL1 and ASXL2 are ETP proteins that assemble chromatin modification complexes and transcription factors. ASXL1 mutations frequently occur in myeloid malignancies and are associated with a poor prognosis, whereas ASXL2 mutations frequently occur in AML with t(8;21)/RUNX1-RUNX1T1 and less frequently in other subtypes of myeloid malignancies. Herein, we review the role of ASXL1 and ASXL2 in normal and malignant hematopoiesis by summarizing the findings of mouse model systems and discussing their underlying molecular mechanisms.
Somatosensory information is signaled by primary sensory neurons located in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) or trigeminal ganglia. Type C-low threshold mechanoreceptors (C-LTMRs) are proposed to sense light touch. The differentiation and maturation of C-LTMRs are regulated by multiple transcript factors, including Zfp521 and Runx1. However, the molecular mechanism of C-LTMR development still remains largely unclear. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) was performed to detect transcriptional changes in Tlx3cko DRGs compared to controls. In situ hybridization and RNAscope were used to verify RNA-seq data. RNA-seq identified 203 up- and 372 downregulated genes in DRG by loss of Tlx3 function. KEGG and Gene ontology analysis indicated that the biological properties and molecular functions were closely associated with neural signal processing and transmitting somatosensory information. In addition, the expression of marker genes of C-LTMRs was significantly decreased in Tlx3 mutants. However, Tlx3cko mice exhibited normal response to static and dynamic touch. Furthermore, Tlx3 was required to regulate the expression of Zfp521 and Runx1. Tlx3, Runx1 and Zfp521 may form a hierarchical regulation pathway to control C-LTMR development.
Risk stratification in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has been extensively improved thanks to the incorporation of recurrent cytogenomic alterations into risk stratification guidelines. However, mortality rates among fit patients assigned to low or intermediate risk groups are still high. Therefore, significant room exists for the improvement of AML prognostication. In a previous work, we presented the Stellae-123 gene expression signature, which achieved a high accuracy in the prognostication of adult patients with AML. Stellae-123 was particularly accurate to restratify patients bearing high-risk mutations, such as ASXL1, RUNX1 and TP53. The intention of the present work was to evaluate the prognostic performance of Stellae-123 in external cohorts using RNAseq technology. For this, we evaluated the signature in 3 different AML cohorts (2 adult and 1 pediatric). Our results indicate that the prognostic performance of the Stellae-123 signature is reproducible in the 3 cohorts of patients. Additionally, we evidenced that the signature was superior to the European LeukemiaNet 2017 and the pediatric clinical risk scores in the prediction of survival at most of the evaluated time points. Furthermore, integration with age substantially enhanced the accuracy of the model. In conclusion, Stellae-123 is a reproducible machine learning algorithm based on a gene expression signature with promising utility in the field of AML.
γδ T cells play important roles in immune responses by rapidly producing large quantities of cytokines. Recently, γδ T cells have been found to be involved in tissue homeostatic regulation, playing roles in thermogenesis, bone regeneration and synaptic plasticity. Nonetheless, the mechanisms involved in γδ T-cell development, especially the regulation of TCRδ gene transcription, have not yet been clarified. Previous studies have established that NOTCH1 signaling plays an important role in the Tcrg and Tcrd germline transcriptional regulation induced by enhancer activation, which is mediated through the recruitment of RUNX1 and MYB. In addition, interleukin-7 signaling has been shown to be required for Tcrg germline transcription, VγJγ rearrangement and γδ T-lymphocyte generation as well as for promoting T-cell survival. In this study, we discovered that interleukin-7 is required for the activation of enhancer-dependent Tcrd germline transcription during thymocyte development. These results indicate that the activation of both Tcrg and Tcrd enhancers during γδ T-cell development in the thymus depends on the same NOTCH1- and interleukin-7-mediated signaling pathways. Understanding the regulation of the Tcrd enhancer during thymocyte development might lead to a better understanding of the enhancer-dependent mechanisms involved in the genomic instability and chromosomal translocations that cause leukemia.
Age estimation based on epigenetic markers is a DNA intelligence tool with the potential to provide relevant information for criminal investigations, as well as to improve the inference of age-dependent physical characteristics such as male pattern baldness or hair color. Age prediction models have been developed based on different tissues, including saliva and buccal cells, which show different methylation patterns as they are composed of different cell populations. On many occasions in a criminal investigation, the origin of a sample or the proportion of tissues is not known with certainty, for example the provenance of cigarette butts, so use of combined models can provide lower prediction errors. In the present study, two tissue-specific and seven age-correlated CpG sites were selected from publicly available data from the Illumina HumanMethylation 450 BeadChip and bibliographic searches, to help build a tissue-dependent, and an age-prediction model, respectively. For the development of both models, a total of 184 samples (N = 91 saliva and N = 93 buccal cells) ranging from 21 to 86 years old were used. Validation of the models was performed using either k-fold cross-validation and an additional set of 184 samples (N = 93 saliva and N = 91 buccal cells, 21-86 years old). The tissue prediction model was developed using two CpG sites (HUNK and RUNX1) based on logistic regression that produced a correct classification rate for saliva and buccal swab samples of 88.59 % for the training set, and 83.69 % for the testing set. Despite these high success rates, a combined age prediction model was developed covering both saliva and buccal cells, using seven CpG sites (cg10501210, LHFPL4, ELOVL2, PDE4C, HOXC4, OTUD7A and EDARADD) based on multivariate quantile regression giving a median absolute error (MAE): ± 3.54 years and a correct classification rate ( %CP±PI) of 76.08 % for the training set, and an MAE of ± 3.66 years and a %CP±PI of 71.19 % for the testing set. The addition of tissue-of origin as a co-variate to the model was assessed, but no improvement was detected in age predictions. Finally, considering the limitations usually faced by forensic DNA analyses, the robustness of the model and the minimum recommended amount of input DNA for bisulfite conversion were evaluated, considering up to 10 ng of genomic DNA for reproducible results. The final multivariate quantile regression age predictor based on the models we developed has been placed in the open-access Snipper forensic classification website.
PURPOSE: Secondary myeloid neoplasms (sMNs) remain the most serious long-term complications in patients with aplastic anemia (AA) and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH). However, sMNs lack specific predictors, dedicated surveillance measures, and early therapeutic interventions.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied a multicenter, retrospective cohort of 1,008 patients (median follow-up 8.6 years) with AA and PNH to assess clinical and molecular determinants of clonal evolution.RESULTS: Although none of the patients transplanted upfront (n = 117) developed clonal complications (either sMN or secondary PNH), the 10-year cumulative incidence of sMN in nontransplanted cases was 11.6%. In severe AA, older age at presentation and lack of response to immunosuppressive therapy were independently associated with increased risk of sMN, whereas untreated patients had the highest risk among nonsevere cases. The elapsed time from AA to sMN was 4.5 years. sMN developed in 94 patients. The 5-year overall survival reached 40% and was independently associated with bone marrow blasts at sMN onset. Myelodysplastic syndrome with high-risk phenotypes, del7/7q, and ASXL1, SETBP1, RUNX1, and RAS pathway gene mutations were the most frequent characteristics. Cross-sectional studies of clonal dynamics from baseline to evolution revealed that PIGA/human leukocyte antigen lesions decreased over time, being replaced by clones with myeloid hits. PIGA and BCOR/L1 mutation carriers had a lower risk of sMN progression, whereas myeloid driver lesions marked the group with a higher risk.CONCLUSION: The risk of sMN in AA is associated with disease severity, lack of response to treatment, and patients' age. sMNs display high-risk morphological, karyotypic, and molecular features. The landscape of acquired somatic mutations is complex and incompletely understood and should be considered with caution in medical management.
Although extramedullary manifestations (EMs) are frequent in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), they are often not detected during clinical workup and neither imaging- nor molecularly based diagnostic strategies are established to reveal their existence. Still, the detection of EM is essential for therapeutic decision-making, as EM present with aggressive and resistant disease and since mutational profiling might render patients within a different risk category, requiring personalized therapeutic strategies. Here, we report the case of an AML patient presenting with AML bone marrow (BM) infiltration and molecularly distinct EM at time of diagnosis followed by multiple EM relapses while undergoing several intensive chemotherapies including allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantations (alloHCTs). 18Fluorodesoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET)-imaging revealed EM sites in the mediastinum, duodenum, skin, and in retroperitoneal tissue, whereas recurrent BM biopsies showed continuous cytomorphologic and cytogenetic remission after alloHCT. To investigate the molecular background of the aggressive character of extramedullary disease and its differential treatment response, we performed amplicon-based next generation sequencing. An exon 4 (c.497_498insGA) frameshift RUNX1 mutation was exclusively found in all of the patient's EM sites, but not in the BM or in peripheral blood samples at time of EM reoccurrence. In addition, we detected an exon 13 (c.3306G>T) ASXL1 point mutation only in the retroperitoneal tumor tissue at the time of the fourth relapse. In contrast to the patient's intermediate-risk BM AML at diagnosis according to ELN2017, EM sites showed molecular adverse-risk features implicating intensified strategies like cellular therapies. Notably, disease relapse could only be detected by imaging throughout the course of disease. This case demonstrates both the necessity of continuous molecular profiling of EM to reveal differential molecular composition of EM and BM-derived AML, supposedly leading to divergent susceptibility to established therapies, as well as recurrent 18FDG-PET-imaging for detecting residual disease and assessment of treatment response in case of EM AML.
DOI: 10.3343/alm.2023.43.1.92PMCID: PMC9467826PMID: 36045062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Acute leukemias are the most common malignant diseases in childhood. The aims of this retrospective cohort study were to investigate the frequency of cytogenetic abnormalities in acute pediatric leukemia; the correlation between cytogenetic abnormalities and 5-year survival; and the correlation between cytogenetic abnormalities and clinical and laboratory features. We included 105 patients; acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) had 80.9% patients, B-cell lineage ALL (B-ALL) 84.7% of them, and T-cell lineage (T-ALL) 15.3%. The overall 5-year survival for B-ALL was 85.9% and for T-ALL was 84.6%. The most common cytogenetic abnormalities in patients with B-ALL were t(12;21)(p13.2;q22.1); ETV6-RUNX1 with 22.2% and hyperdiploidy with 19.4%. Our survival analysis showed that t(12;21)(p13.2;q22.1); ETV6-RUNX1 and t(1;19)(q23;p13.3); TCF3-PBX1 had the best 5-year survival with 100% of patients surviving, whereas t(v;11q23.3); KMT2A rearranged had the worst 5-year survival of just 33.3% of patients surviving after 5 years. We found no difference in 5-year survival in B-ALL when comparing clinical features. Acute myelogenous leukemia had 20 patients with 70.6% 5-year survival. The most common cytogenetic abnormality in acute myelogenous leukemia was t(8;21)(q21;q22.1); RUNX1-RUNX1T1 (20%). In conclusion, this study showed the correlation of different cytogenetic abnormalities with 5-year survival in B-ALL patients. Such correlation was not found when comparing clinical features and 5-year survival of patients with B-ALL. This emphasized the significance of cytogenetic analysis in pediatric leukemia.
Initiation and development of cancer depend on multiple factors that mutations in genes and epigenetic level can be considered as important drivers. Epigenetic factors include a large family of members and understanding their function in cancer has been a hot topic. LncRNAs are RNA molecules with no capacity in synthesis of proteins, and they have regulatory functions in cells. LncRNAs are localized in nucleus and cytoplasm, and their abnormal expression is related to development of tumor. This manuscript emphasizes on the role of lncRNA H19 in various cancers and its association with tumor hallmarks. The function of lncRNA H19 in most tumors is oncogenic and therefore, tumor cells increase its expression for promoting their progression. LncRNA H19 contributes to enhancing growth and cell cycle of cancers and by EMT induction, it is able to elevate metastasis rate. Silencing H19 induces apoptotic cell death and disrupts progression of tumors. LncRNA H19 triggers chemo- and radio-resistance in cancer cells. miRNAs are dually upregulated/down-regulated by lncRNA H19 in increasing tumor progression. Anti-cancer agents reduce lncRNA H19 in impairing tumor progression and increasing therapy sensitivity. A number of downstream targets and molecular pathways for lncRNA H19 have been detected in cancers including miRNAs, RUNX1, STAT3, β-catenin, Akt2 and FOXM1. Clinical studies have revealed potential of lncRNA H19 as biomarker and its association with poor prognosis. LncRNA H19 can be transferred to cancer cells via exosomes in enhancing their progression.
Immunophenotypic characterization of leukemic cells with the use of flow cytometry (FC) is a fundamental tool in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) diagnostics. A variety of genetic aberrations underlie specific B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL) subtypes and their identification is of great importance for risk group stratification. These aberrations include: ETV6::RUNX1 fusion gene, Philadelphia chromosome (BCR::ABL1 fusion gene), rearrangements of the KMT2A, TCF3::PBX1 fusion gene and changes in chromosome number (hyperdiploidy and hypodiploidy). Diagnostic panels for BCP-ALL usually include B-cell lineage specific antigens: CD19, CD10, CD20, maturation stage markers: CD34, CD10, CD38, TdT, IgM and other markers useful for possible genetic subtype indication. Some genetic features of leukemic cells (blasts) are associated with expression of certain antigens. This review comprehensively summarizes all known research data on genotype-immunophenotype correlations in BCP-ALL. In some cases, single molecules are predictive of particular genetic subtypes, i.e., NG2 with KMT2A gene rearrangements or CD123 with hyperdiploidy. However, much more information on possible genotype or prognosis can be obtained with wider (≥8-color) panels. In several studies, a quantitative antigen expression scale and advanced statistical analyses were used to further increase the specificity and sensitivity of genotype/immunophenotype correlation detection. Fast detection of possible genotype/immunophenotype correlations makes multicolor flow cytometry an essential tool for initial leukemia diagnostics and stratification.
The genetic factors of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) development are only partially understood. The Runt-Related Transcription Factor (RUNX) gene family play a crucial role in hematological malignancies, serving both a tumor suppressor and promoter function. The aim of this study was the assessment of relative RUNX1 and RUNX3 genes expression level among adult ALL cases and a geographically and ethnically matched control group. The relative RUNX1 and RUNX3 genes expression level was assessed by qPCR. The investigated group comprised 60 adult patients newly diagnosed with ALL. The obtained results were compared with a group of 40 healthy individuals, as well as clinical and hematological parameters of patients, and submitted for statistical analysis. ALL patients tend to have significantly higher RUNX1 gene expression level compared with controls. This observation is also true for risk group stratification where high-risk (HR) patients presented higher levels of RUNX1. A higher RUNX1 transcript level correlates with greater leukocytosis while RUNX3 expression is reduced in Philadelphia chromosome bearers. The conducted study sustains the hypothesis that both a reduction and increase in the transcript level of RUNX family genes may be involved in leukemia pathogenesis, although their interaction is complex. In this context, overexpression of the RUNX1 gene in adult ALL cases in particular seems interesting. Obtained results should be interpreted with caution. Further analysis in this research field is needed.
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) play a critical role in maintaining the tumor immune microenvironment; thus, the promotion of MDSC polarization will improve immunotherapies for cancers. However, the mechanisms involved in controlling MDSC polarization in hepatocellular carcinoma remain largely unclear. In this study, we found that injection of Pam3CSK4 attenuated the process of tumor growth, along with reduction of MDSC and recovery of T cell function. Moreover, Pam3CSK4 promoted MDSC polarization by targeting Runx1. Runx1 inhibitor reversed the therapeutic effect of Pam3CSK4 by increasing tumor size and weight and decreasing the survival rate of tumor mice. In addition, targeting Runx1 reduced the expression of CD11c, F4/80, CD80/CD86 and MHC-II in MDSC after Pam3CSK4 stimulation in vivo and in vitro. MDSC also exhibited consistent changes with increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) production after Pam3CSK4 and Ro5-3335 treatment. RNA sequence data revealed that tfrc, steap3, and gclm were up-regulated in the Pam3CSK4/Ro5-3335 group compared with Pam3CSK4 treatment alone, suggesting that the regulatory effect of TLR2 and Runx1 on MDSC might act through the ferroptosis pathway. Overall, our study has identified a critical role for TLR2 and Runx1 in regulating the differentiation and function of MDSCs and has provided a new mechanism of controlling MDSC polarization during HCC immunotherapy.
Intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21) defines a rare provisional entity of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in the current WHO classification and has been described as specific for pediatric patients with a median age at diagnosis of 9-10 years. We report two adult cases of B-ALL with iAMP21, one 31-year-old woman and one 40-year-old man, identified by karyotyping and next generation sequencing (NGS), with fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) pattern meeting diagnostic criteria for iAMP21. Both patients were treated on high-risk chemotherapeutic regimen followed by stem cell transplant. In contrast to reported high relapse rate within the first three years in pediatric population, our adult patients are alive in remission, with the interval from diagnosis to last follow up of 2.95 and 3.96 years. Our cases illustrate the importance of screening for iAMP21 in adult population when ETV6-RUNX1 FISH testing is not routinely performed for adult patients.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignant disease of immature myeloid cells and the most prevalent acute leukemia among adults. The oncogenic homo-tetrameric fusion protein RUNX1/ETO results from the chromosomal translocation t(8;21) and is found in AML patients. The nervy homology region 2 (NHR2) domain of ETO mediates tetramerization; this oligomerization is essential for oncogenic activity. Previously, we identified the first-in-class small-molecule inhibitor of NHR2 tetramer formation, 7.44, which was shown to specifically interfere with NHR2, restore gene expression down-regulated by RUNX1/ETO, inhibit the proliferation of RUNX1/ETO-depending SKNO-1 cells, and reduce the RUNX1/ETO-related tumor growth in a mouse model. However, no biophysical and structural characterization of 7.44 binding to the NHR2 domain has been reported. Likewise, the compound has not been characterized as to physicochemical, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties. Here, we characterize the interaction between the NHR2 domain of RUNX1/ETO and 7.44 by biophysical assays and show that 7.44 interferes with NHR2 tetramer stability and leads to an increase in the dimer population of NHR2. The affinity of 7.44 with respect to binding to NHR2 is Klig = 3.75 ± 1.22 µM. By NMR spectroscopy combined with molecular dynamics simulations, we show that 7.44 binds with both heteroaromatic moieties to NHR2 and interacts with or leads to conformational changes in the N-termini of the NHR2 tetramer. Finally, we demonstrate that 7.44 has favorable physicochemical, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties. Together with biochemical, cellular, and in vivo assessments, the results reveal 7.44 as a lead for further optimization towards targeted therapy of t(8;21) AML.
BACKGROUND: Despite intensive risk-based treatment protocols, 15% of paediatric patients with B-Cell Precursor Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (BCP-ALL) experience relapse. There is urgent need of novel strategies to target poor prognosis subgroups, like PAX5 translocated.METHODS: We considered 289 childhood BCP-ALL cases consecutively enrolled in Italy in the AIEOP-BFM ALL2000/R2006 protocols and we performed extensive molecular profiling, integrating gene expression, copy number analyses and fusion genes discovery by target-capture NGS. We developed preclinical strategies to target PAX5 fusion genes.FINDINGS: We identified 135 cases without recurrent genetic rearrangements. Among them, 59 patients (43·7%) had a Ph-like signature; the remaining cases were identified as ERG-related (26%), High-Hyperdiploid-like (17%), ETV6::RUNX1-like (8·9%), MEF2D-rearranged (2·2%) or KMT2A-like (1·5%). A poor prognosis was associated with the Ph-like signature, independently from other high-risk features. Interestingly, PAX5 was altered in 54·4% of Ph-like compared to 16·2% of non-Ph-like cases, with 7 patients carrying PAX5 fusions (PAX5t), involving either novel (ALDH18A1, IKZF1, CDH13) or known (FBRSL1, AUTS2, DACH2) partner genes. PAX5t cases have a specific driver activity signature, extending to multiple pathways including LCK hyperactivation. Among FDA-approved drugs and inhibitors, we selected Dasatinib, Bosutinib and Foretinib, in addition to Nintedanib, known to be LCK ligands. We demonstrated the efficacy of the LCK-inhibitor BIBF1120/Nintedanib, as single agent or in combination with conventional chemotherapy, both ex vivo and in patient-derived xenograft model, showing a synergistic effect with dexamethasone.INTERPRETATION: This study provides new insights in high-risk Ph-like leukaemia and identifies a potential therapy for targeting PAX5-fusion poor risk group.FUNDING: Ricerca Finalizzata-Giovani Ricercatori (Italian Ministry of Health), AIRC, Transcall, Fondazione Cariparo.
The chromosomal translocation t(4;11)(q21;q23), a hallmark of an aggressive form of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), encodes mixed-lineage leukemia (MLL)-AF4 oncogenic chimera that triggers aberrant transcription of genes involved in lymphocyte differentiation, including HOXA9 and MEIS1. The scaffold protein 14-3-3θ, which promotes the binding of MLL-AF4 to the HOXA9 promoter, is a target of MiR-27a, a tumor suppressor in different human leukemia cell types. We herein study the role of MiR-27a in the pathogenesis of t(4;11) ALL. Reverse transcription quantitative PCR (qPCR) reveals that MiR-27a and 14-3-3θ expression is inversely correlated in t(4;11) ALL cell lines; interestingly, MiR-27a relative expression is significantly lower in patients affected by t(4;11) ALL than in patients affected by the less severe t(12;21) leukemia. In t(4;11) leukemia cells, ectopic expression of MiR-27a decreases protein level of 14-3-3θ and of the key transcription factor RUNX1. We show for the first time that MiR-27a also targets AF4 and MLL-AF4; in agreement, MiR-27a overexpression strongly reduces AF4 and MLL-AF4 protein levels in RS4;11 cells. Consequent to AF4 and MLL-AF4 downregulation, MiR-27a overexpression negatively affects transcription of HOXA9 and MEIS1 in different t(4;11) leukemia cell lines. In agreement, we show through chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments that MiR-27a overexpression impairs the binding of MLL-AF4 to the HOXA9 promoter. Lastly, we found that MiR-27a overexpression decreases viability, proliferation, and clonogenicity of t(4;11) cells, whereas it enhances their apoptotic rate. Overall, our study identifies the first microRNAthat strikes in one hit four crucial drivers of blast transformation in t(4;11) leukemia. Therefore, MiR-27a emerges as a new promising therapeutic target for this aggressive and poorly curable form of leukemia.
Classifications of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients rely on morphologic, cytogenetic, and molecular features. Here we have established a novel flow cytometry-based immunophenotypic stratification showing that AML blasts are blocked at specific stages of differentiation where features of normal myelopoiesis are preserved. Six stages of leukemia differentiation-arrest categories based on CD34, CD117, CD13, CD33, MPO, and HLA-DR expression were identified in two independent cohorts of 2087 and 1209 AML patients. Hematopoietic stem cell/multipotent progenitor-like AMLs display low proliferation rate, inv(3) or RUNX1 mutations, and high leukemic stem cell frequency as well as poor outcome, whereas granulocyte-monocyte progenitor-like AMLs have CEBPA mutations, RUNX1-RUNX1T1 or CBFB-MYH11 translocations, lower leukemic stem cell frequency, higher chemosensitivity, and better outcome. NPM1 mutations correlate with most mature stages of leukemia arrest together with TET2 or IDH mutations in granulocyte progenitors-like AML or with DNMT3A mutations in monocyte progenitors-like AML. Overall, we demonstrate that AML is arrested at specific stages of myeloid differentiation (SLA classification) that significantly correlate with AML genetic lesions, clinical presentation, stem cell properties, chemosensitivity, response to therapy, and outcome.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Wuhan First Hospital, Wuhan 430022, China.
BACKGROUND: The significant heterogeneity of elderly AML patients' biological features has caused stratification difficulties and adverse prognosis. This paper did a correlation study between their genetic mutations, clinical features, and prognosis to further stratify them.METHODS: 90 newly diagnosed elderly acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients (aged ≥60 years) who detected genetic mutations by next-generation sequencing (NGS) were enrolled between April 2015 and March 2021 in our medical center.RESULTS: A total of 29 genetic mutations were identified in 82 patients among 90 cases with a frequency of 91.1%. DNMT3A, BCOR, U2AF1, and BCORL1 mutations were unevenly distributed among different FAB classifications (p < 0.05). DNMT3A, IDH2, NPM1, FLT3-ITD, ASXL1, IDH1, SRSF2, BCOR, NRAS, RUNX1, U2AF1, MPO, and WT1 mutations were distributed differently when an immunophenotype was expressed or not expressed (p<0.05). NPM1 and FLT3-ITD had higher mutation frequencies in patients with normal chromosome karyotypes than abnormal chromosome karyotypes (p<0.001, p=0.005). DNMT3A and NRAS mutations predicted lower CR rates. DNMT3A, TP53, and U2AF1 mutations were related to unfavorable OS. TET2 mutation with CD123+, CD11b+ or CD34- predicted lower CR rate. IDH2+/CD34- predicted lower CR rate. ASXL1+/CD38+ and SRSF2+/CD123- predicted shorter OS.CONCLUSION: The study showed specific correlations between elderly AML patients' genetic mutations and clinical features, some of which may impact prognosis.
Opioid use disorder is a chronic brain disease influenced by genetic and epigenetic factors, accounting for approximately 50% of the liability. Adrenergic signaling is involved in opioid use disorder. To demonstrate the associations between methylation alterations in the alpha-1-adrenergic receptor (ADRA1A) gene and opioid use disorder, in the present study, we first examined and compared the methylation levels of 97 CpG sites in the promoter region of the ADRA1A gene in the peripheral blood in 120 patients with heroin use disorder and 111 healthy controls. Correlations between methylation levels and duration of heroin/methadone use were then analyzed. Finally, the predicted binding transcription factors (TFs) and their target sequences in the promoter region of the ADRA1A gene, which include the selected CpG sites, were screened in the JASPAR database. Our results demonstrated that hypermethylation in the promoter region of the ADRA1A gene in the blood was associated with opioid use disorder. Correlations between methylation levels of several CpG sites and duration of heroin/methadone use were observed. TFs TFAP2A and RUNX1 were predicted to bind to the target sequences, which include the CpG sites selected in the current study, in the promoter region of the ADRA1A gene. Our findings further extend the associations between methylation alterations in the ADRA1A gene and opioid use disorder potentially through mechanisms of gene expression regulations in the ADRA1A gene.
Identification of specific leukemia subtypes is a key to successful risk-directed therapy in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Although RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is the best approach to identify virtually all specific leukemia subtypes, the routine use of this method is too costly for patients in resource-limited countries. This study enrolled 295 patients with pediatric ALL from 2010 to 2020. Routine screening could identify major cytogenetic alterations in approximately 69% of B-cell ALL (B-ALL) cases by RT-PCR, DNA index, and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. STIL-TAL1 was present in 33% of T-cell ALL (T-ALL) cases. The remaining samples were submitted for RNA-seq. More than 96% of B-ALL cases and 74% of T-ALL cases could be identified based on the current molecular classification using this sequential approach. Patients with Philadelphia chromosome-like ALL constituted only 2.4% of the entire cohort, a rate even lower than those with ZNF384-rearranged (4.8%), DUX4-rearranged (6%), and Philadelphia chromosome-positive (4.4%) ALL. Patients with ETV6-RUNX1, high hyperdiploidy, PAX5 alteration, and DUX4 rearrangement had favorable prognosis, whereas those with hypodiploid and KMT2A and MEF2D rearrangement ALL had unfavorable outcomes. With the use of multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification, DNA index, and RT-PCR in B-ALL and RT-PCR in T-ALL followed by RNA-seq, childhood ALL can be better classified to improve clinical assessments.
BACKGROUND: Biological mechanism of miR-210-3p in endometrial carcinoma (EC) remains unclear. Here, our purpose is to study effects of miR-210-3p on malignant progression of EC.METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis showed miRNA and mRNA are abnormally expressed in EC tissues. Quantitative real-time fluorescence polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was utilized to compare miR-210-3p mRNA level in EC cells and tissues. qRT-PCR and western blot were used to measure RUNX1T1 and NCAM1 at mRNA and protein levels, and western blot for p-AKT and AKT proteins related to PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Furthermore, EC cell behaviors were assayed via Cell Counting Kit-8, cell colony formation assay, wound healing, transwell and flow cytometry experiments. Interaction between RUNX1T1 and miR-210-3p was verified through dual-luciferase assay. Immunohistochemistry was used to analyze RUNX1T1 expression in clinical samples RESULTS: MiR-210-3p was considerably upregulated and RUNX1T1 was significantly under-expressed in EC. Overexpression of miR-210-3p stimulated cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and restrained cell apoptosis in EC. Dual-luciferase assay proved that RUNX1T1 was a target gene of miR-210-3p. The level of RUNX1T1 in EC was downregulated after overexpressing miR-210-3p. Rescue assay showed that overexpression of RUNX1T1 had an inhibitory impact on tumor-relevant cell behaviors, whereas overexpression of miR-210-3p rescued such inhibition. Overexpression of RUNX1T1 reduced p-AKT expression, which was restored with concomitantly overexpressed miR-210-3p.CONCLUSION: In general, miR-210-3p behaves as an oncogene in EC by down-regulating the expression of RUNX1T1. This study elucidates a new functional mechanism in EC, and indicates miR-210-3p an underlying target.
BACKGROUND: The RUNX family of transcription factors plays an important regulatory role in tumor development. Although the importance of RUNX in certain cancer types is well known, the pan-cancer landscape remains unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) provides a pan-cancer overview of the RUNX genes. Hence, herein, we performed a pan-cancer analysis of abnormal RUNX expression and deciphered the potential regulatory mechanism. Specifically, we used TCGA multi-omics data combined with multiple online tools to analyze transcripts, genetic alterations, DNA methylation, clinical prognoses, miRNA networks, and potential target genes.RESULTS: RUNX genes are consistently overexpressed in esophageal, gastric, pancreatic, and pan-renal cancers. The total protein expression of RUNX1 in lung adenocarcinoma, kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC), and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) is consistent with the mRNA expression results. Moreover, increased phosphorylation on the T14 and T18 residues of RUNX1 may represent potential pathogenic factors. The RUNX genes are significantly associated with survival in pan-renal cancer, brain lower-grade glioma, and uveal melanoma. Meanwhile, various mutations and posttranscriptional changes, including the RUNX1 D96 mutation in invasive breast carcinoma, the co-occurrence of RUNX gene mutations in UCEC, and methylation changes in the RUNX2 promoter in KIRC, may be associated with cancer development. Finally, analysis of epigenetic regulator co-expression, miRNA networks, and target genes revealed the carcinogenicity, abnormal expression, and direct regulation of RUNX genes.CONCLUSIONS: We successfully analyzed the pan-cancer abnormal expression and prognostic value of RUNX genes, thereby providing potential biomarkers for various cancers. Further, mutations revealed via genetic alteration analysis may serve as a basis for personalized patient therapies.
BACKGROUND: Simple translocations and complex rearrangements are formed through illegitimate ligations of double-strand breaks of fusion partners and lead to generation of oncogenic fusion genes that affect cellular function. The contact first hypothesis states that fusion partners tend to colocalize prior to fusion in normal cells. Here we test this hypothesis at the single-cell level and explore the underlying mechanism.RESULTS: By analyzing published single-cell diploid Hi-C datasets, we find partner genes fused in leukemia exhibit smaller spatial distances than those fused in solid tumor and control gene pairs. Intriguingly, multiple partners tend to colocalize with KMT2A in the same cell. 3D genome architecture has little association with lineage decision of KMT2A fusion types in leukemia. Besides simple translocations, complex rearrangement-related KMT2A fusion genes (CRGs) also show closer proximity and belong to a genome-wide mutual proximity network. We find CRGs are co-expressed, co-localized, and enriched in the targets of the transcriptional factor RUNX1, suggesting they may be involved in RUNX1-mediated transcription factories. Knockdown of RUNX1 leads to significantly fewer contacts among CRGs. We also find CRGs are enriched in active transcriptional regions and loop anchors, and exhibit high levels of TOP2-mediated DNA breakages. Inhibition of transcription leads to reduced DNA breakages of CRGs.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate KMT2A partners and CRGs may form dynamic and multipartite spatial clusters in individual cells that may be involved in RUNX1-mediated transcription factories, wherein massive DNA damages and illegitimate ligations of genes may occur, leading to complex rearrangements and KMT2A fusions in leukemia.
Microgravity and hypergravity-induced changes affect both molecular and organismal responses as demonstrated in various animal models. In addition to its inherent advantages, zebrafish have been shown to be incredibly resilient to altered gravity conditions. To understand the effects of altered gravity on animal physiology, especially the cardiovascular system, we used 2 h centrifugations to simulate short-term hypergravity and investigated its effects on zebrafish development. Morphological and in situ hybridization observations show a comparable overall development in both control and treated embryos. Spatiotemporal analysis revealed varied gene expression patterns across different developmental times. Genes driving primitive hematopoiesis (tal1, gata1) and vascular specificity (vegf, etv2) displayed an early onset of expression following hypergravity exposure. Upregulated expression of hematopoiesis-linked genes, such as runx1, cmyb, nos, and pdgf family demonstrate short-term hypergravity to be a factor inducing definitive hematopoiesis through a combinatorial mechanism. We speculate that these short-term hypergravity-induced physiological changes in the developing zebrafish embryos constitute a rescue mechanism to regain homeostasis.
Breast cancer is the most common invasive cancer in women worldwide. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) provides a high-resolution profile of cancer genome. Our study ultimately gives the insight for genetic screening to identify the minority of patients with breast cancer with a poor prognosis, who might benefit from the most intensive possible treatment. The detection of mutations can polish the traditional method to detect high-risk patients who experience poor prognosis, recurrence and death early. In total, 147 breast cancer tumors were sequenced with targeted sequencing using a RainDance Cancer Hotspot Panel. The average age of all 147 breast cancer patients in the study was 51.7 years, with a range of 21-77 years. The average sequencing depth was 5,222x (range 2,900x-8,633x), and the coverage was approximately 100%. A total of 235 variants in 43 genes were detected in 147 patients by high-depth Illumina sequencing. A total of 219 single nucleotide variations were found in 42 genes from 147 patients, and 16 indel mutations were found in 13 genes from 84 patients. After filtering with the 1000 Genomes database and for synonymous SNPs, we focused on 54 somatic functional point mutations. The functional point mutations contained 54 missense mutations in 22 genes. Additionally, mutation of genes within the RET, PTEN, CDH1, MAP2K4, NF1, ERBB2, RUNX1, PIK3CA, FGFR3, KIT, KDR, APC, SMO, NOTCH1, and FBXW7 in breast cancer patients were with poor prognosis. Moreover, TP53 and APC mutations were enriched in triple-negative breast cancer. APC mutations were associated with a poor prognosis in human breast cancer (log-rank P<0.001). Our study identified tumor mutation hotspot profiles in Taiwanese breast cancer patients, revealing new targetable gene mutations in Asian breast cancer patients.
Development of safer drugs based on epigenetic modifiers, e.g., histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi), requires better understanding of their effects on cardiac electrophysiology. Using RNAseq data from the genotype-tissue-expression database (GTEx), we created models that link the abundance of acetylation enzymes (HDAC/SIRT/HATs), and the gene expression of ion channels (IC) via select cardiac transcription factors (TFs) in male and female adult human hearts (left ventricle, LV). Gene expression data (transcripts per million, TPM) from GTEx donors (21-70 y.o.) were filtered, normalized and transformed to Euclidian space to allow quantitative comparisons in 84 female and 158 male LVs. Sex-specific partial least-square (PLS) regression models, linking gene expression data for HDAC/SIRT/HATs to TFs and to ICs gene expression, revealed tight co-regulation of cardiac ion channels by HDAC/SIRT/HATs, with stronger clustering in the male LV. Co-regulation of genes encoding excitatory and inhibitory processes in cardiac tissue by the acetylation modifiers may help explain their predominantly net-neutral effects on cardiac electrophysiology. ATP1A1, encoding for the Na/K pump, represented an outlier-with orthogonal regulation by the acetylation modifiers to most of the ICs. The HDAC/SIRT/HAT effects were mediated by strong (+) TF regulators of ICs, e.g., MEF2A and TBX5, in both sexes. Furthermore, for male hearts, PLS models revealed a stronger (+/-) mediatory role on ICs for NKX25 and TGF1B/KLF4, respectively, while RUNX1 exhibited larger (-) TF effects on ICs in females. Male-trained PLS models of HDAC/SIRT/HAT effects on ICs underestimated the effects on some ICs in females. Insights from the GTEx dataset about the co-expression and transcriptional co-regulation of acetylation-modifying enzymes, transcription factors and key cardiac ion channels in a sex-specific manner can help inform safer drug design.
INTRODUCTION: Mutated RUNX1 is considered a poor prognostic factor and usually is mutually exclusive with NPM1 mutations. Monitoring of molecular markers for minimal residual disease provides a powerful tool to assess remission and guide clinical decisions.METHODS: Newly diagnosed RUNX1-mutated AML patients, designated to intensive chemotherapy-based treatment or nonintensive regimens, were monitored for mutated RUNX1 transcript levels by qPCR with patient-specific primers. Samples were obtained along the treatment course and follow-up.RESULTS: A clear correlation was observed between mutated RUNX1 levels and response to treatment as observed by flow cytometry and STR-based assessment.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate the feasibility of RUNX1-based MRD to correlate with the clinicopathological status of leukemia. We further suggest how RUNX1 qPCR monitoring can influence clinical decision-making and contribute to improved personalized patient care.
Comment in    Immunity. 2022 Aug 9;55(8):1329-1331.
The aim of this study was to characterize the mutational landscape of patients with FLT3-mutated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) treated within the randomized CALGB 10603/RATIFY trial evaluating intensive chemotherapy plus the multi-kinase inhibitor midostaurin versus placebo. We performed sequencing of 262 genes in 475 patients: mutations occurring concurrently with the FLT3-mutation were most frequent in NPM1 (61%), DNMT3A (39%), WT1 (21%), TET2 (12%), NRAS (11%), RUNX1 (11%), PTPN11 (10%), and ASXL1 (8%) genes. To assess effects of clinical and genetic features and their possible interactions, we fitted random survival forests and interpreted the resulting variable importance. Highest prognostic impact was found for WT1 and NPM1 mutations, followed by white blood cell count, FLT3 mutation type (internal tandem duplications vs. tyrosine kinase domain mutations), treatment (midostaurin vs. placebo), ASXL1 mutation, and ECOG performance status. When evaluating two-fold variable combinations the most striking effects were found for WT1:NPM1 (with NPM1 mutation abrogating the negative effect of WT1 mutation), and for WT1:treatment (with midostaurin exerting a beneficial effect in WT1-mutated AML). This targeted gene sequencing study provides important, novel insights into the genomic background of FLT3-mutated AML including the prognostic impact of co-mutations, specific gene-gene interactions, and possible treatment effects of midostaurin.
The PD-L1/2-PD-1 immune checkpoint is essential for the proper induction of peripheral tolerance and limits autoimmunity, whereas tumor cells exploit their expression to promote immune evasion. Many different cell types express PD-L1/2, either constitutively or upon stimulation, but the factors driving this expression are often poorly defined. In this study, using genome-wide CRISPR activation screening, we identified three factors that upregulate PD-L1 expression: GATA2, MBD6, and transcription cofactor vestigial-like protein 3 (VGLL3). VGLL3 acts as a transcriptional regulator, and its expression induced PD-L1 in many different cell types. Conversely, loss of VGLL3 impaired IFN-γ-induced PD-L1/2 expression in human keratinocytes. Mechanistically, by performing a second screen to identify proteins acting in concert with VGLL3, we found that VGLL3 forms a complex with TEAD1 and RUNX1/3 to drive expression of PD-L1/2. Collectively, our work identified a new transcriptional complex controlling PD-L1/2 expression and suggests that VGLL3, in addition to its known role in the expression of proinflammatory genes, can balance inflammation by upregulating the anti-inflammatory factors PD-L1 and PD-L2.
INTRODUCTION: Analysis of measurable residual disease (MRD) is increasingly being implemented in the clinical care of children and adults with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). However, MRD methodologies differ and discordances in results lead to difficulties in interpretation and clinical decision-making. The aim of this study was to compare results from reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and multiparameter flow cytometry (MFC) in childhood AML and describe the kinetics of residual leukaemic burden during induction treatment.METHODS: In 15 children who were treated in the NOPHO-AML 2004 trial and had fusion transcripts quantified by RT-qPCR, we compared MFC with RT-qPCR for analysis of MRD during (day 15) and after induction therapy. Eight children had RUNX1::RUNX1T1, one CBFB::MYH11 and six KMT2A::MLLT3.RESULTS: When ≥0.1% was used as cut-off for positivity, 10 of 22 samples were discordant. The majority (9/10) were MRD positive with RT-qPCR but MRD negative with MFC, and several such cases showed the presence of mature myeloid cells. Fusion transcript expression was verified in mature cells as well as in CD34 expressing cells sorted from diagnostic samples.CONCLUSIONS: Measurement with RT-qPCR suggests slower response kinetics than indicated from MFC, presumably due to the presence of mature cells expressing fusion transcript. The prognostic impact of early measurements with RT-qPCR remains to be determined.
Perception and preferences for food and beverages determine dietary behaviour and health outcomes. Inherent differences in chemosensory genes, ethnicity, geo-climatic conditions, and sociocultural practices are other determinants. We aimed to study the variation landscape of chemosensory genes involved in perception of taste, texture, odour, temperature and burning sensations through analysis of 1,029 genomes of the IndiGen project and diverse continental populations. SNPs from 80 chemosensory genes were studied in whole genomes of 1,029 IndiGen samples and 2054 from the 1000 Genomes project. Population genetics approaches were used to infer ancestry of IndiGen individuals, gene divergence and extent of differentiation among studied populations. 137,760 SNPs including common and rare variants were identified in IndiGenomes with 62,950 novel (46%) and 48% shared with the 1,000 Genomes. Genes associated with olfaction harbored most SNPs followed by those associated with differences in perception of salt and pungent tastes. Across species, receptors for bitter taste were the most diverse compared to others. Three predominant ancestry groups within IndiGen were identified based on population structure analysis. We also identified 1,184 variants that exhibit differences in frequency of derived alleles and high population differentiation (FST ≥0.3) in Indian populations compared to European, East Asian and African populations. Examples include ADCY10, TRPV1, RGS6, OR7D4, ITPR3, OPRM1, TCF7L2, and RUNX1. This is a first of its kind of study on baseline variations in genes that could govern cuisine designs, dietary preferences and health outcomes. This would be of enormous utility in dietary recommendations for precision nutrition both at population and individual level.
RUNX1T1 (Runt-related transcription factor 1, translocated to 1), a myeloid translocation gene (MTG) family member, is usually investigated as part of the fusion protein RUNX1-RUNX1T1 for its role in acute myeloid leukemia. In the main, by recruiting histone deacetylases, RUNX1T1 negatively influences transcription, enabling it to regulate the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitors. Moreover, the formation of blood vessels, neuronal differentiation, microglial activation following injury, and intestinal development all relate closely to the expression of RUNX1T1. Furthermore, through alternative splicing of RUNX1T1, short and long isoforms have been noted to mediate adipogenesis by balancing the differentiation and proliferation of adipocytes. In addition, RUNX1T1 plays wide-ranging and diverse roles in carcinoma as a biomarker, suppressor, or positive regulator of carcinogenesis, closely correlated to specific organs and dominant signaling pathways. The aim of this work was to investigate the structure of RUNX1T1, which contains four conserved nervy homolog domains, and to demonstrate crosstalk with the Notch signaling pathway. Moreover, we endeavored to illustrate the effects of RUNX1T1 on cell fate from multiple aspects, including its influence on hematopoiesis, neuronal differentiation, microglial activation, intestinal development, adipogenesis, angiogenesis, and carcinogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematologic malignancy with genetic alterations. RUNX1, which is an essential transcription factor for hematopoiesis, is frequently mutated in AML. Loss-of-function mutation of RUNX1 is correlated with poor prognosis of AML patients. It is urgent to reveal the underlying mechanism.RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: TCGA AML, GSE106291, GSE142700, and GSE67609 datasets were used. R package was used to define differentially expressed miRNAs, miRNA target genes, RUNX1-related gene, RUNX directly regulating genes, and so on. The relationship of gene expression with overall survival was analyzed by Cox regression. KEGG and GO analyses were applied to the above-mentioned genesets and overlapped genes. Alteration and importance of MAPK pathway were validated in K562 cells by Western blotting and apoptosis assay in vitro.RESULTS: RUNX1 regulated MAPK pathway indirectly and directly. MAPK pathway was altered in K562-cell-induced mutated RUNX1, and these cells were more sensitive to AraC after p38 was inhibited.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX1 could modulate MAPK pathway, which may provide a potential therapeutic target for AML patients with RUNX1 mutations.
BACKGROUND: t(8;21)(q22;q22) is the most frequent recurrent translocation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) resulting in an in-frame fusion of RUNX1/RUNX1T1 that regulates various genes involved in the signaling pathways. This leukemogenic alteration is usually associated with a favorable clinical outcome. Variants of t(8;21) can be formed involving a third or fourth chromosome in ~3-4% of t(8;21)-AML. Due to the rarity of variant t(8;21), its clinicopathological features and prognostic significance are still unclear. Here we present three AML cases with cryptic rearrangements of chromosomes 8 and 21 without standard RUNX1/RUNX1T1.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Conventional karyotyping and fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or spectral karyotyping of the pretreatment bone marrow aspirate of de novo AML patients were performed to delineate chromosomal abnormalities.RESULTS: We identified three cases with novel variants of t(8;21); der(13)t(8;21;13), isodicentric derivative 8 with chromosome 21[,+idicder(8)(q11.1)t(8;21)(q22;q11.1)] and der(21)t(8;12;21)(q22;q?;q22).CONCLUSION: AML with t(8;21)(q22;q22);RUNX1-RUNX1T1 forms a distinct WHO subcategory and hence the identification of variants or unusual translocations associated with t(8;21) deserves more attention. Contribution to the variant/ unusual t(8;21) database will further refine the risk stratification and may help to significantly advance the current treatment regimen.
Predictors, genetic characteristics, and long-term outcomes of patients with SAA who clonally evolved after immunosuppressive therapy (IST) were assessed. SAA patients were treated with IST from 1989-2020. Clonal evolution was categorized as "high-risk" (overt myeloid neoplasm [meeting WHO criteria for dysplasia, MPN or acute leukemia] or isolated chromosome-7 abnormality/complex karyotype without dysplasia or overt myeloid neoplasia) or "low-risk" (non-7 or non-complex chromosome abnormalities without morphological evidence of dysplasia or myeloid neoplasia). Univariate and multivariate analysis using Fine-Gray competing risk regression model determined predictors. Long-term outcomes included relapse, overall survival (OS) and hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Somatic mutations in myeloid cancer genes were assessed in evolvers and in 407 patients 6 months after IST. Of 663 SAA patients, 95 developed clonal evolution. Pre-treatment age >48 years and ANC > 0.87 × 109/L were strong predictors of high-risk evolution. OS was 37% in high-risk clonal evolution by 5 years compared to 94% in low-risk. High-risk patients who underwent HSCT had improved OS. Eltrombopag did not increase high-risk evolution. Splicing factors and RUNX1 somatic variants were detected exclusively at high-risk evolution; DNMT3A, BCOR/L1 and ASXL1 were present in both. RUNX1, splicing factors and ASXL1 somatic mutations detected at 6 months after IST predicted high-risk evolution.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a curative post-remission treatment in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), but relapse after transplant is still a challenging event. In recent year, several studies have investigated the molecular minimal residual disease (qPCR-MRD) as a predictor of relapse, but the lack of standardized protocols, cut-offs, and timepoints, especially in the pediatric setting, has prevented its use in several settings, including before HSCT. Here, we propose the first collaborative retrospective I-BFM-AML study assessing qPCR-MRD values in pretransplant bone marrow samples of 112 patients with a diagnosis of AML harboring t(8;21)(q22; q22)RUNX1::RUNX1T1, or inv(16)(p13q22)CBFB::MYH11, or t(9;11)(p21;q23)KMT2A::MLLT3, or FLT3-ITD genetic markers. We calculated an ROC cut-off of 2.1 × 10-4 that revealed significantly increased OS (83.7% versus 57.1%) and EFS (80.2% versus 52.9%) for those patients with lower qPCR-MRD values. Then, we partitioned patients into three qPCR-MRD groups by combining two different thresholds, 2.1 × 10-4 and one lower cut-off of 1 × 10-2, and stratified patients into low-, intermediate-, and high-risk groups. We found that the 5-year OS (83.7%, 68.6%, and 39.2%, respectively) and relapse-free survival (89.2%, 73.9%, and 67.9%, respectively) were significantly different independent of the genetic lesion, conditioning regimen, donor, and stem cell source. These data support the PCR-based approach playing a clinical relevance in AML transplant management.
Recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) is typically defined as two or more consecutive pregnancy losses prior to 20 weeks of gestation. Although the causes of idiopathic RPL are not completely understood, vascular development and glucose concentration were reported to correlate with the pregnancy loss. The TGF-β signaling pathway which plays a significant role in pregnancy is activated by the interaction between high glucose and SMAD signaling and affects the vascular cells. SMAD5 and RUNX-1 are involved in the TGF-β signaling pathway and contribute to advanced glycation end products (AGEs) production and vascular development. FN3KRP, a newly described gene, is also associated with vascular diseases and suggested to relate to AGEs. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated associations between RPL risk and genetic polymorphisms of SMAD5, FN3KRP, and RUNX-1 in 388 women with RPL and 280 healthy control women of Korean ethnicity. Participants were genotyped using real-time polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism assay to determine the frequency of SMAD5 rs10515478 C>G, FN3KRP rs1046875 G>A, and RUNX-1 rs15285 G>A polymorphisms. We found that women with RPL had lower likelihoods of the FN3KRP rs1046875 AA genotype (adjusted odds ratio (AOR), 0.553; p = 0.010) and recessive model (AOR, 0.631; p = 0.017). Furthermore, combination analysis showed that SMAD5 rs10515478 C>G and FN3KRP rs1046875 G>A mutant alleles were together associated with reduced RPL risk. These findings suggest that the FN3KRP rs1046875 G>A polymorphism has a significant role on the prevalence of RPL in Korean women. Considering that it is the first study indicating a significant association between FN3KRP and pregnancy disease, RPL, our results suggest the need for further investigation of the role of FN3KRP in pregnancy loss.
Venetoclax is a BCL-2 inhibitor that effectively improves clinical outcomes in newly diagnosed, relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients, with complete response rates (with and without complete blood count recovery) ranging between 34-90% and 21-33%, respectively. Here, we aim to give an overview of the efficacy of venetoclax-based therapy for AML patients, as compared to standard chemotherapy, and on factors and mechanisms involved in venetoclax sensitivity and resistance in AML (stem) cells, with the aim to obtain a perspective of response biomarkers and combination therapies that could enhance the sensitivity of AML cells to venetoclax. The presence of molecular aberrancies can predict responses to venetoclax, with a higher response in NPM1-, IDH1/2-, TET2- and relapsed or refractory RUNX1-mutated AML. Decreased sensitivity to venetoclax was observed in patients harboring FLT3-ITD, TP53, K/NRAS or PTPN11 mutations. Moreover, resistance to venetoclax was observed in AML with a monocytic phenotype and patients pre-treated with hypomethylating agents. Resistance to venetoclax can arise due to mutations in BCL-2 or pro-apoptotic proteins, an increased dependency on MCL-1, and usage of additional/alternative sources for energy metabolism, such as glycolysis and fatty acid metabolism. Clinical studies are testing combination therapies that may circumvent resistance, including venetoclax combined with FLT3- and MCL-1 inhibitors, to enhance venetoclax-induced cell death. Other treatments that can potentially synergize with venetoclax, including MEK1/2 and mitochondrial complex inhibitors, need to be evaluated in a clinical setting.
Pathogenic loss-of-function RUNX1 germline variants cause autosomal dominantly-inherited familial platelet disorder with predisposition to hematologic malignancies (RUNX1-FPD). RUNX1-FPD is characterized by incomplete penetrance and a broad spectrum of clinical phenotypes, even within affected families. Heterozygous RUNX1 germline variants set the basis for leukemogenesis, but, on their own, they are not transformation-sufficient. Somatically acquired secondary events targeting RUNX1 and/or other hematologic malignancy-associated genes finally lead to MDS, AML, and rarely other hematologic malignancies including lymphoid diseases. The acquisition of different somatic variants is a possible explanation for the variable penetrance and clinical heterogeneity seen in RUNX1-FPD. However, individual effects of secondary variants are not yet fully understood. Here, we review 91 cases of RUNX1-FPD patients who predominantly harbor somatic variants in genes such as RUNX1, TET2, ASXL1, BCOR, PHF6, SRSF2, NRAS, and DNMT3A. These cases illustrate the importance of secondary events in the development and progression of RUNX1-FPD-associated hematologic malignancies. The leukemia-driving interplay of predisposing germline variants and acquired variants remain to be elucidated to better understand clonal evolution and malignant transformation and finally allow risk-adapted surveillance and targeted therapeutic measures to prevent leukemia.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with ≥2% plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC) has been recently described as AML with pDC differentiation (pDC-AML) characterized by pDC expansion with frequent RUNX1 mutations. In this study, we investigated a cohort of 53 pDC-AML cases representing about 3% of all AML cases. We characterized their immunophenotype and genetic profiles and compared these findings with blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN). pDC-differentiation/expansion was preferentially observed in AML with an immature myeloid or myelomonocytic immunophenotype, where myeloblasts were frequently positive for CD34 (98%), CD117 (94%), HLA-DR (100%) and TdT (79%), with increased CD123 (89%) expression. The median number of pDCs in pDC-AML was 6.6% (range, 2% to 26.3%) and their immunophenotype reminiscent of pDCs in early or intermediate stages of differentiation. The immunophenotype of pDCs in pDC-AML was different from BPDCN (n = 39), with major disparities in CD34 (96% vs. 0%), CD56 (8% vs. 97%) and TCL1 (12% vs. 98%) and significant differences in frequency of CD4, CD13, CD22, CD25, CD36, CD38, CD117 and CD303 expression. At the molecular level, the genetic landscapes of pDC-AML and BPDCN also differ, with RUNX1 mutations detected in 64% of pDC-AML versus 2% of BPDCN. Disparities in TET2 (21% vs. 56%), FLT3 (23% vs. 0%), DNMT3A (32% vs. 10%) and ZRSR2 (2% vs. 16%) (all p < 0.05) were also detected. The distinct immunophenotypic and mutation profiles of pDC-AML and BPDCN indicate that the neoplastic pDCs in pDC-AML and BPDCN derived from different subsets of pDC precursors.
Comment in    Trends Immunol. 2022 Oct;43(10):780-781.
BACKGROUND: Synovial fibroblasts (SFs) are specialized cells of the synovium that provide nutrients and lubricants for the proper function of diarthrodial joints. Recent evidence appreciates the contribution of SF heterogeneity in arthritic pathologies. However, the normal SF profiles and the molecular networks that govern the transition from homeostatic to arthritic SF heterogeneity remain poorly defined.METHODS: We applied a combined analysis of single-cell (sc) transcriptomes and epigenomes (scRNA-seq and scATAC-seq) to SFs derived from naïve and hTNFtg mice (mice that overexpress human TNF, a murine model for rheumatoid arthritis), by employing the Seurat and ArchR packages. To identify the cellular differentiation lineages, we conducted velocity and trajectory analysis by combining state-of-the-art algorithms including scVelo, Slingshot, and PAGA. We integrated the transcriptomic and epigenomic data to infer gene regulatory networks using ArchR and custom-implemented algorithms. We performed a canonical correlation analysis-based integration of murine data with publicly available datasets from SFs of rheumatoid arthritis patients and sought to identify conserved gene regulatory networks by utilizing the SCENIC algorithm in the human arthritic scRNA-seq atlas.RESULTS: By comparing SFs from healthy and hTNFtg mice, we revealed seven homeostatic and two disease-specific subsets of SFs. In healthy synovium, SFs function towards chondro- and osteogenesis, tissue repair, and immune surveillance. The development of arthritis leads to shrinkage of homeostatic SFs and favors the emergence of SF profiles marked by Dkk3 and Lrrc15 expression, functioning towards enhanced inflammatory responses and matrix catabolic processes. Lineage inference analysis indicated that specific Thy1+ SFs at the root of trajectories lead to the intermediate Thy1+/Dkk3+/Lrrc15+ SF states and culminate in a destructive and inflammatory Thy1- SF identity. We further uncovered epigenetically primed gene programs driving the expansion of these arthritic SFs, regulated by NFkB and new candidates, such as Runx1. Cross-species analysis of human/mouse arthritic SF data determined conserved regulatory and transcriptional networks.CONCLUSIONS: We revealed a dynamic SF landscape from health to arthritis providing a functional genomic blueprint to understand the joint pathophysiology and highlight the fibroblast-oriented therapeutic targets for combating chronic inflammatory and destructive arthritic disease.
Nociceptors in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia (TG) are necessary for transmitting pain and itch signals. However, the molecular mechanism regulating nociceptor development remains largely unknown. This study identifies that the transcription factor Meis1 is generally expressed in two groups of sensory neurons in the developing DRG. During prenatal and neonatal stages, approximately 2/3 of Meis1+ neurons are Runx1+ nociceptors, while 1/3 of Meis1+ neurons are NF200+ myelinated neurons. At postnatal stages, Meis1 expression in nociceptors is gradually reduced. Here, we constructed a Meis1 conditional knockout mouse line to selectively delete Meis1 in Nav1.8 lineage nociceptors. Microarray analyses showed that differentially expressed genes in the Meis1 mutant DRG were enriched in pathways related to sensory perception of pain and nervous system development. In addition, Meis1 regulates the expression of some marker genes of Nppb+ neurons and C-LTMRs. Furthermore, Meis1 mutant mice exhibit behavioral deficits in response to light mechanical pain, static touch and chemical itch. Therefore, this study reveals that Meis1 is required to regulate the development of nociceptors.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2022 Aug 8;40(8):804-806.
Considering the vast biological diversity and high mortality rate in high-grade ovarian cancers, identification of novel biomarkers, enabling precise diagnosis and effective, less aggravating treatment, is of paramount importance. Based on scientific literature data, we selected 80 cancer-related genes and evaluated their mRNA expression in 70 high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) samples by Real-Time qPCR. The results were validated in an independent Northern American cohort of 85 HGSOC patients with publicly available NGS RNA-seq data. Detailed statistical analyses of our cohort with multivariate Cox and logistic regression models considering clinico-pathological data and different TP53 mutation statuses, revealed an altered expression of 49 genes to affect the prognosis and/or treatment response. Next, these genes were investigated in the validation cohort, to confirm the clinical significance of their expression alterations, and to identify genetic variants with an expected high or moderate impact on their products. The expression changes of five genes, PROM1, CXCL8, RUNX1, NAV1, TP73, were found to predict prognosis or response to treatment in both cohorts, depending on the TP53 mutation status. In addition, we revealed novel and confirmed known SNPs in these genes, and showed that SNPs in the PROM1 gene correlated with its elevated expression.
Interferon regulatory factor 2 binding protein 2 (Irf2bp2), a co-repressor of Irf2, is required for fetal hepatic erythropoiesis through the expansion of erythromyeloid progenitors. Mice with germline ablation of the entire Irf2bp2 transcript produced no viable Irf2bp2-null pups in first litters. In subsequent litters, fewer than 1/3 of the expected Irf2bp2-null pups were born and half survived to adulthood. As in humans with somatic mutations in IRF2BP2, adult Irf2bp2-null mice developed lymphoma. Transcriptome profiling of liver, heart, and skeletal muscle from Irf2bp2-null adult mice revealed a predominant upregulation of interferon-responsive genes. Of interest, hematopoietic stem cell-enriched transcription factors (Etv6, Fli1, Ikzf1, and Runx1) were also elevated in Irf2bp2-null livers. Intriguingly, Irf2bp2-positive myeloid (but not lymphoid) cells were detected in the livers of adult Irf2bp2-null mice. In female Irf2bp2-null mice, these cells carried a Y chromosome while in male Irf2bp2-null livers, no cells with Barr bodies (inactivated X chromosomes) were detected, indicating that Irf2bp2-positive erythromyeloid cells might be acquired only from male siblings of prior litters by transmaternal microchimerism. These cells likely rescue the deficit in fetal erythropoiesis, but not adult-onset lymphomagenesis, caused by Irfb2p2 ablation.
LMO2 is a well-known leukemic proto-oncogene, its ectopic expression in T-lineage specifically initiates malignant transformation of immature T cells and ultimately causes the onset of acute T-lymphocytic leukemia (T-ALL) in both mouse models and human patients. In this study, we systematically explored the LMO2 performance on the profiles of transcriptome, DNA-binding and protein interactions during T-lineage development in the pre-leukemic stage. Our data indicated that large-scale transcriptional dysregulation caused by LMO2 primarily occurred in DN3 thymocytes, characterized by enriched upregulation of the target genes of typical LMO2 complex, RUNX, ETS and STATs, and ectopic LMO2 primarily targeted to RUNX motifs along with intensive interaction with RUNX1 and H3K4 methyltransferase component ASH2L in this stage. However, binding of LMO2 on specific motifs was largely reduced in the following DP and SP stages, along with gradually disappeared LMO2-RUNX1 and LMO2-ASH2L interactions and less alteration of certain transcriptional factor profiles. Moreover, LMO2 showed relatively less influence on cellular behavior of DN3 thymocyte whereas displayed more prominent effects in DP and SP stages, including promoting Notch signaling and cell cycles. These findings provide a high-resolution landscape of the pathogenic role of LMO2 during T-lineage development in molecular level, and may benefit further clinical investigations for LMO2-associated T-lineage malignancies.
Prefibrotic primary myelofibrosis (Pre-PMF) has been classified as a separate entity of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). Pre-PMF is clinically heterogeneous but a specific prognostic model is lacking. Gene mutations have emerged as useful tools for stratification of myelofibrosis patients. However, there have been limited studies comprehensively investigating the mutational spectrum and its clinicopathological significance in pre-PMF subjects. In this study, we addressed these issues by profiling the mutation status of 141 genes in 172 Chinese MPN patients including 72 pre-PMF cases. Our findings corroborated the clinical/molecular distinctiveness of pre-PMF and suggested a refined risk classification strategy for this entity.
The natural history of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is dependent upon the presence and magnitude of diverse genetic and molecular aberrations. The International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) and revised IPSS (IPSS-R) are the most widely used classification and prognostic systems; however, somatic mutations are not currently incorporated into these systems, despite evidence of their independent impact on prognosis. Our manuscript reviews prognostic information for TP53, EZH2, DNMT3A, ASXL1, RUNX1, SRSF2, CBL, IDH 1/2, TET2, BCOR, ETV6, GATA2, U2AF1, ZRSR2, RAS, STAG2, and SF3B1. Mutations in TP53, EZH2, ASXL1, DNMT3A, RUNX1, SRSF2, and CBL have extensive evidence for their negative impact on survival, whereas SF3B1 is the lone mutation carrying a favorable prognosis. We use the existing literature to propose the incorporation of somatic mutations into the IPSS-R. More data are needed to define the broad spectrum of other genetic lesions, as well as the impact of variant allele frequencies, class of mutation, and impact of multiple interactive genomic lesions. We postulate that the incorporation of these data into MDS prognostication systems will not only enhance our therapeutic decision making but lead to targeted treatment in an attempt to improve outcomes in this formidable disease.
SRP54 mutations have recently been implicated in congenital neutropenia (CN) and the in-frame deletion, p.Thr117del, is the most common pathogenic mutation reported. The largest study of SRP54-mutated CN to-date followed 23 patients for a median of 15 years. No patients developed a hematologic malignancy in that study. Given the known risk of leukemia in other CNs it is crucial to know whether patients with SRP54-mutated CN have an increased risk of leukemia. We report the first case of leukemia in a patient with SRP54-mutated CN. A 15-year-old male with SRP54-mutated CN (p.Thr117del) was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia with myelodysplasia-related changes on a screening bone marrow evaluation. Next generation sequencing of the leukemia cells identified CSF3R and RUNX1 mutations. These mutations commonly co-exist in CN-associated malignancies and suggest leukemogenesis in SRP54-mutated CN may occur in a similar manner to other CNs. He was successfully treated with CPX-351 followed by hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) and remains in remission at a follow-up time of 9 months. Although conclusions from this single report must be limited, this has potentially significant implications for both screening and treatment practices for these patients, including the role and timing of HCT.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are crucial for the continuous production of blood cells during life. The transplantation of these cells is one of the most common treatments to cure patient suffering of blood diseases. However, the lack of suitable donors is a major limitation. One option to get HSCs matching perfectly a patient is cellular reprogramming. HSCs emerge from endothelial cells in blood vessels during embryogenesis through the endothelial to hematopoietic transition. Here, we used single-cell transcriptomics analysis to compare embryonic and post-natal endothelial cells to investigate the potential of adult vasculature to be reprogrammed in hematopoietic stem cells. Although transcriptional similarities have been found between embryonic and adult endothelial cells, we found some key differences in term of transcription factors expression. There is a deficit of expression of Runx1, Tal1, Lyl1 and Cbfb in adult endothelial cells compared to their embryonic counterparts. Using a combination of gene expression profiling and gene regulatory network analysis, we found that endothelial cells from the pancreas, brain, kidney and liver appear to be the most suitable targets for cellular reprogramming into HSCs. Overall, our work provides an important resource for the rational design of a reprogramming strategy for the generation of HSCs.
Transcription factor RUNX1 is a master regulator of hematopoiesis and megakaryopoiesis. RUNX1 haplodeficiency (RHD) is associated with thrombocytopenia and platelet granule deficiencies and dysfunction. Platelet profiling of our study patient with RHD showed decreased expression of RAB31, a small GTPase whose cell biology in megakaryocytes (MKs)/platelets is unknown. Platelet RAB31 messenger RNA was decreased in the index patient and in 2 additional patients with RHD. Promoter-reporter studies using phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate-treated megakaryocytic human erythroleukemia cells revealed that RUNX1 regulates RAB31 via binding to its promoter. We investigated RUNX1 and RAB31 roles in endosomal dynamics using immunofluorescence staining for markers of early endosomes (EEs; early endosomal autoantigen 1) and late endosomes (CD63)/multivesicular bodies. Downregulation of RUNX1 or RAB31 (by small interfering RNA or CRISPR/Cas9) showed a striking enlargement of EEs, partially reversed by RAB31 reconstitution. This EE defect was observed in MKs differentiated from a patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cell line (RHD-iMKs). Studies using immunofluorescence staining showed that trafficking of 3 proteins with distinct roles (von Willebrand factor [VWF], a protein trafficked to α-granules; epidermal growth factor receptor; and mannose-6-phosphate) was impaired at the level of EE on downregulation of RAB31 or RUNX1. There was loss of plasma membrane VWF in RUNX1- and RAB31-deficient megakaryocytic human erythroleukemia cells and RHD-iMKs. These studies provide evidence that RAB31 is downregulated in RHD and regulates megakaryocytic vesicle trafficking of 3 major proteins with diverse biological roles. EE defect and impaired vesicle trafficking is a potential mechanism for the α-granule defects observed in RUNX1 deficiency.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an infrequent disease, and it is associated with high morbidity and mortality. It harbors a unique configuration of cytogenetic abnormalities and molecular mutations that can be detected using microscopic and molecular methods respectively. These genetic tests are core elements of diagnosis and prognostication in high-income countries. They are routinely incorporated in clinical decision making, allowing for the individualization of therapy. However, these tests are largely inaccessible to most patients in Kenya and therefore no data has been reported on this group of patients. The main purpose of this study is to describe the cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities of acute myeloid leukemia patients seen at the hemato-oncology unit of Kenyatta National Hospital. A cross-sectional descriptive study was carried out over a 3-month period on ten patients with a diagnosis of AML. Social demographics and clinical data were collected through a study proforma. A peripheral blood sample was collected for conventional metaphase G-banding technique and next generation sequencing. Particularly, targeted DNA sequencing (Illumina myeloid panel) and whole exome sequencing (WES) were performed. Cytogenetic analysis failed in 10/10 cases. Targeted sequencing was successfully obtained in 8 cases, whereas WES in 7. Cytogenetic studies yielded no results. There were 20 mutations detected across 10 commonly mutated genes. All patients had at least one clinically relevant mutation. Based on ELN criteria, NGS identified three patients with high-risk mutations, affecting TP53 (n = 2) and RUNX1 (n = 1). One patient was classified as favorable (PML-RARA) while 4 were standard risk. However, WT1 mutations associated with unfavorable prognosis were recorded in additional 2 cases. WES showed concordant results with targeted sequencing while unveiling more mutations that warrant further attention. In conclusion, we provide the first molecular profiling study of AML patients in Kenya including application of advanced next generation sequencing technologies, highlighting current limitations of AML diagnostics and treatment while confirming the relevance of NGS in AML characterization.
The outcomes of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients with SF3B1 mutation, despite identified as a favorable prognostic biomarker, are variable. To comprehend the heterogeneity in clinical characteristics and outcomes, we reviewed 140 MDS patients with SF3B1 mutation in Zhejiang province of China. Seventy-three (52.1%) patients diagnosed as MDS with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS) following the 2016 World Health Organization (WHO) classification and 118 (84.3%) patients belonged to lower risk following the revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R). Although clonal hematopoiesis-associated mutations containing TET2, ASXL1 and DNMT3A were the most frequent co-mutant genes in these patients, RUNX1, EZH2, NF1 and KRAS/NRAS mutations had significant effects on overall survival (OS). Based on that we developed a risk scoring model as IPSS-R×0.4+RUNX1×1.1+EZH2×0.6+RAS×0.9+NF1×1.6. Patients were categorized into two subgroups: low-risk (L-R, score <= 1.4) group and high risk (H-R, score > 1.4) group. The 3-year OS for the L-R and H-R groups was 91.88% (95% CI, 83.27%-100%) and 38.14% (95% CI, 24.08%-60.40%), respectively (P<0.001). This proposed model distinctly outperformed the widely used IPSS-R. In summary, we constructed and validated a personalized prediction model of MDS patients with SF3B1 mutation that can better predict the survival of these patients.
Peripheral nerve injury is common, and can lead to skeletal muscle atrophy and dysfunction. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. The transcription factors have been proved to play a key role in denervated muscle atrophy. In order to systematically analyze transcription factors and obtain more comprehensive information of the molecular regulatory mechanisms in denervated muscle atrophy, a new transcriptome survey focused on transcription factors are warranted. In the current study, we used microarray to identify and analyze differentially expressed genes encoding transcription factors in denervated muscle atrophy in a rat model of sciatic nerve dissection. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses were used to explore the biological functions of differentially expressed transcription factors and their target genes related to skeletal muscle pathophysiology. We found that the differentially expressed transcription factors were mainly involved in the immune response. Based on correlation analysis and the expression trends of transcription factors, 18 differentially expressed transcription factors were identified. Stat3, Myod1, Runx1, Atf3, Junb, Runx2, Myf6, Stat5a, Tead4, Klf5, Myog, Mef2a, and Hes6 were upregulated. Ppargc1a, Nr4a1, Lhx2, Ppara, and Rxrg were downregulated. Functional network mapping revealed that these transcription factors are mainly involved in inflammation, development, aging, proteolysis, differentiation, regeneration, autophagy, oxidative stress, atrophy, and ubiquitination. These findings may help understand the regulatory mechanisms of denervated muscle atrophy and provide potential targets for future therapeutic interventions for muscle atrophy following peripheral nerve injury.
Chromosomal aberrations are among the most important prognostic parameters in AML, and conventional cytogenetic analysis remains essential for risk stratification. In this report, we describe an adult male patient with a high percentage of circulating blasts, pathologically confirmed as AML with maturation. Cytogenetic analysis of a bone marrow sample revealed heptasomy 21 and trisomy 13 within a complex karyotype of 52,XY,der(2)t(2;13)(q33.3;q32.1),+13,+21,+21,+21,+21,+21 in all 20 cells examined, which was confirmed by metaphase FISH. Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) revealed complete loss of heterozygosity (LOH) of chromosome 21, supporting a common origin. In addition, LOH of chromosome 1p, trisomy 13, and partial tetrasomy of 13q and partial monosomy of 2q as a result of an unbalanced translocation between chromosomes 2 and 13 were observed. Molecular analysis identified two pathogenic missense variants: RUNX1 p.D198Y and SRSF2 p.P95R. The clonal allele ratio of RUNX1 p.D198Y was consistent with all copies of chromosome 21 in the leukemic clone carrying the mutation. Within the medical literature, there are no reports of heptasomy 21 for comparison; however, there are reports of AML with either polysomy 21 or trisomy 13. Our results suggest that even relatively 'common' AML aneuploidies may be associated with much more complex genomic changes, including loss of heterozygosity, which impact prognosis.
BACKGROUND: 21q22 amplification is a rare cytogenetic aberration in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). So far, the cytogenomic and molecular features and clinical correlation of 21q22 amplification in AML have not been well-characterized.CASE PRESENTATION: Here, we describe a case series of three AML patients with amplified 21q22 identified by fluorescence in situ hybridization using a RUNX1 probe. Two of these patients presented with therapy-related AML (t-AML) secondary to chemotherapy, while the third had de novo AML. There was one case each of FAB M0, M1 and M4. Morphologic evidence of dysplasia was identified in both t-AML cases. Phenotypic abnormalities of the myeloblasts were frequently observed. Extra copies of 21q22 were present on chromosome 21 and at least one other chromosome in two cases. Two showed a highly complex karyotype. Microarray analysis of 21q22 amplification in one case demonstrated alternating levels of high copy number gain split within the RUNX1 locus at 21q22. The same patient also had mutated TP53. Two patients died at 1.5 and 11 months post-treatment, while the third elected palliative care and died within 2 weeks.CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide further evidence that 21q22 amplification in AML is associated with complex karyotypes, TP53 aberrations, and poor outcomes. Furthermore, we demonstrate that 21q22 amplification is not always intrachromosomally localized to chromosome 21 and could be a result of structural aberrations involving 21q22 and other chromosomes.
Erratum in    Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2023 May 14;656:146-147.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factors utilize energy from ATP hydrolysis to modulate DNA-histone structures and regulate gene transcription. They are essential during hematopoiesis and for hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) function. This review discusses the recently unveiled roles of these chromatin remodelers in HSPC regulation, with an emphasis on the mechanism of chromodomain helicase DNA-binding (CHD) family members.RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies of ATP-dependent chromatin remodelers have revealed that individual CHD family members engage in distinct mechanisms in regulating HSPC cell fate. For example, CHD8 is required for HSPC survival by restricting both P53 transcriptional activity and protein stability in steady state hematopoiesis while the related CHD7 physically interacts with RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and suppresses RUNX1-induced expansion of HSPCs during blood development. Moreover, other CHD subfamily members such as CHD1/CHD2 and CHD3/CHD4, as well as the switch/sucrose non-fermentable, imitation SWI, and SWI2/SNF2 related (SWR) families of chromatin modulators, have also been found important for HSPC maintenance by distinct mechanisms.SUMMARY: The expanding knowledge of ATP-dependent chromatin remodelers in hematopoiesis illustrates their respective critical roles in HSPC maintenance including the regulation of HSPC differentiation, survival, and self-renewal. Further studies are warranted to elucidate how different chromatin remodeling complexes are integrated in various HSPC cell fate decisions during steady-state and stress hematopoiesis.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21-ALL) represents a recurrent high-risk cytogenetic abnormality and accurate identification is critical for appropriate clinical management. Identification of iAMP21-ALL has historically relied on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) using a RUNX1 probe. Current classification requires ≥ five copies of RUNX1 per cell and ≥ three additional copies of RUNX1 on a single abnormal iAMP21-chromosome. We sought to evaluate the performance of the RUNX1 probe in the identification of iAMP21-ALL. This study was a retrospective evaluation of iAMP21-ALL in the Mayo Clinic and Children's Oncology Group cohorts. Of 207 cases of iAMP21-ALL, 188 (91%) were classified as "typical" iAMP21-ALL, while 19 (9%) cases were classified as "unusual" iAMP21-ALL. The "unusual" iAMP21 cases did not meet the current definition of iAMP21 by FISH but were confirmed to have iAMP21 by chromosomal microarray. Half of the "unusual" iAMP21-ALL cases had less than five RUNX1 signals, while the remainder had ≥ five RUNX1 signals with some located apart from the abnormal iAMP21-chromosome. Nine percent of iAMP21-ALL cases fail to meet the FISH definition of iAMP21-ALL demonstrating that laboratories are at risk of misidentification of iAMP21-ALL when relying only on the RUNX1 FISH probe. Incorporation of chromosomal microarray testing circumvents these risks.
Systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN) poses diagnostic challenges because of the coexistence of atypical mast cell proliferation and hematological neoplasms. We assessed the presence of SM-AHN in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with RUNX1::RUNX1T1 from 2014 to 2020. Bone marrow (BM) samples were evaluated for mast cell aggregates using CD117 and CD25 immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. The KIT D816V variant burden at diagnosis and post induction was assessed using droplet digital PCR. Among 23 patients diagnosed as having AML with RUNX1::RUNX1T1, four (17.4%) were also diagnosed as having SM-AHN. No significant differences in clinical characteristics or overall survival (P=0.565) were observed between patients with or without SM-AHN, except for the presence of KIT variants (P=0.040). After induction therapy, IHC staining revealed the presence of mast cell aggregates in the BM, and the KIT D816V variant burden decreased with decreasing blast count and was similar in BM aspirates, smear slides, and sections. Concomitant SM-AHN was not infrequent in AML patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1. This study showed the importance of CD117 and CD25 IHC staining after induction chemotherapy for SM-AHN screening, especially in patients with KIT variants.
Somatic runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) mutations are the most common mutations in various hematological malignancies, such as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Mono-allelic RUNX1 mutations in germline cells may cause familial platelet disorder (FPD), an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome (IBMFS) associated with an increased lifetime risk of AML. It is suspected that additional RUNX1 mutations may play a role in the pathogenesis of hematological malignancies in IBMFS. This review aims to study the role of RUNX1 mutations in the pathogenesis of hematological malignancies in patients with IBMFS. A PubMed database search was conducted using the following medical subject heading (MeSH) terms: "inherited bone marrow failure syndromes," "hematological neoplasms," "gene expression regulation, leukemic," "RUNX1 protein, human," "RUNX1 protein, mouse," and "Neutropenia, Severe Congenital, Autosomal recessive." Three studies published in 2020 were identified as meeting our inclusion and exclusion criteria. Leukemic progression in severe congenital neutropenia was used as a disease model to evaluate the clinical, molecular, and mechanistic basis of RUNX1 mutations identified in hematological malignancies. Studies in mice and genetically reprogrammed or induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have shown that isolated RUNX1 mutations are weakly leukemogenic and only initiate hyperproduction of immature hematopoietic cells when in combination with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (GCSF3R) mutations. Despite this, whole-exome sequencing (WES) performed on leukemogenic transformed cells revealed that all AML cells had an additional mutation in the CXXC finger protein 4 (CXXC4) gene that caused hyperproduction of the ten-eleven translocation (TET2) protein. This protein causes inflammation in cells with RUNX1 mutations. This process is thought to be critical for clonal myeloid malignant transformation (CMMT) of leukemogenic cells. In conclusion, the combinations of GCSF3R and RUNX1 mutations have a prominent effect on myeloid differentiation resulting in the hyperproduction of myeloblasts. In other studies, it has been noted that the mutations in GCSF3R and RUNX1 genes are not sufficient for the full transformation of leukemogenic cells to AML, and an additional clonal mutation in the CXXC4 gene is essential for full transformation to occur. These data have implicitly demonstrated that RUNX1 mutations are critical in the pathogenesis of various hematological malignancies, and further investigations into the role of RUNX1 are paramount for the development of new cancer treatments.
The maintenance and proliferation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are tightly regulated by their niches in the bone marrow. The analysis of niche cells or stromal cell lines that can support HSCs has facilitated the finding of novel supporting factors for HSCs. Despite large efforts in the murine bone marrow; however, HSC expansion is still difficult ex vivo, highlighting the need for new approaches to elucidate the molecular elements that regulate HSCs. The zebrafish provides a unique model to study hematopoietic niches as HSCs are maintained in the kidney, allowing for a parallel view of hematopoietic niches over evolution. Here, using a stromal cell line from the zebrafish kidney, zebrafish kidney stromal (ZKS), we uncover that an inhibitor of canonical Wnt signaling, IWR-1-endo, is a potent regulator of HSCs. Coculture assays revealed that ZKS cells were in part supportive of maintenance, but not expansion, of gata2a:GFP+runx1:mCherry+ (gata2a+runx1+) HSCs. Transcriptome analysis revealed that, compared with candidate niche cells in the kidney, ZKS cells weakly expressed HSC maintenance factor genes, thpo and cxcl12, but highly expressed canonical Wnt ligand genes, wnt1, 7bb, and 9a. Thpo supplementation in ZKS culture slightly increased, but inhibition of canonical Wnt signaling by IWR-1-endo treatment largely increased the number of gata2a+runx1+ cells (>2-fold). Moreover, we found that gata2a+runx1+ cells can be maintained by supplementing both IWR-1-endo and Thpo without stromal cells. Collectively, our data provide evidence that IWR-1-endo can be used as a novel supporting factor for HSCs.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review describes ANKRD26-related thrombocytopenia (RT) from a molecular, clinical, and laboratory perspective, with a focus on the clinical decision-making that takes place in the diagnosis and management of families with ANKRD26-RT.RECENT FINDINGS: ANKRD26-related thrombocytopenia (ANKRD26-RT) is a non-syndromic autosomal dominant thrombocytopenia with predisposition to hematologic neoplasm. The clinical presentation is variable with moderate thrombocytopenia with normal platelet size and absent to mild bleeding being the hallmark which makes it difficult to distinguish from other inherited thrombocytopenias. The pathophysiology involves overexpression of ANKRD26 through loss of inhibitory control by transcription factors RUNX1 and FLI1. The great majority of disease-causing variants are in the 5' untranslated region. Acute myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome, and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia have been reported to occur in the context of germline variants in ANKRD26, with the development of somatic driver mutations in hematopoietic regulators playing an important role in malignant transformation. In the absence of clear risk estimates of development of malignancy, optimal surveillance strategies and interventions to reduce risk of evolution to a myeloid disorder, multidisciplinary evaluation, with a strong genetic counseling framework is essential in the approach to these patients and their families. Gene-specific expertise and a multidisciplinary approach are important in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and families with ANKRD26-RT. These strategies help overcome the challenges faced by clinicians in the evaluation of individuals with a rare, non-syndromic, inherited disorder with predisposition to hematologic malignancy for which large data to guide decision-making is not available.
It is urgently necessary to reduce the adverse effects of chemotherapy while maintaining their cure high rates for children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The present study aimed to determine whether the dose intensity of daunorubicin during the remission-induction phase could be reduced for low-risk patients with ALL. A total of 2396 eligible patients, who participated in CCCG-ALL-2015 study and were provisionally assigned to the low-risk group, were included and divided into single-dose group and double-dose group according to the dosage of daunorubicin during the remission-induction phase. For patients with ETV6-RUNX1 positive ALL or hyperdiploidy ALL, there were no significant differences in outcomes between the two groups. For other patients, the 5-year event-free survival rate was significantly better and the 5-year cumulative risk of any relapse was significantly lower in the double-dose group compared with the single-dose group. Both the 5-year overall survival rate and the risk of early deaths were not significantly different between the two groups. Our results suggested that only B-lineage ALL patients with ETV6-RUNX1 positivity or hyperdiploidy who achieved an early negative minimal residual disease status were suitable candidates for dosage reduction of daunorubicin during the remission-induction phase.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://www.chictr.org.cn/showproj.aspx?proj=10115, identifier ChiCTR-IPR-14005706.
The generation of human hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) represents a major goal in regenerative medicine and is believed would follow principles of early development. HSCs arise from a type of endothelial cell called a "hemogenic endothelium" (HE), and human HSCs are experimentally detected by transplantation into SCID or other immune-deficient mouse recipients, termed SCID-Repopulating Cells (SRC). Recently, SRCs were detected by forced expression of seven transcription factors (TF) (ERG, HOXA5, HOXA9, HOXA10, LCOR, RUNX1, and SPI1) in hPSC-derived HE, suggesting these factors are deficient in hPSC differentiation to HEs required to generate HSCs. Here we derived PECAM-1-, Flk-1-, and VE-cadherin-positive endothelial cells that also lack CD45 expression (PFVCD45-) which are solely responsible for hematopoietic output from iPSC lines reprogrammed from AML patients. Using HEs derived from AML patient iPSCs devoid of somatic leukemic aberrations, we sought to generate putative SRCs by the forced expression of 7TFs to model autologous HSC transplantation. The expression of 7TFs in hPSC-derived HE cells from an enhanced hematopoietic progenitor capacity was present in vitro, but failed to acquire SRC activity in vivo. Our findings emphasize the benefits of forced TF expression, along with the continued challenges in developing HSCs for autologous-based therapies from hPSC sources.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most prevalent chronic hepatic disease; nevertheless, no definitive diagnostic method exists yet, apart from invasive liver biopsy, and nor is there a specific approved treatment. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) plays a major role in angiogenesis and inflammation; however, its link with NAFLD is unclear as controversial results have been reported. Thus, the objective of this work was to determine the proteins involved in the molecular mechanisms between RUNX1 and NAFLD, by means of systems biology. First, a mathematical model that simulates NAFLD pathophysiology was generated by analyzing Anaxomics databases and reviewing available scientific literature. Artificial neural networks established NAFLD pathophysiological processes functionally related to RUNX1: hepatic insulin resistance, lipotoxicity, and hepatic injury-liver fibrosis. Our study indicated that RUNX1 might have a high relationship with hepatic injury-liver fibrosis, and a medium relationship with lipotoxicity and insulin resistance motives. Additionally, we found five RUNX1-regulated proteins with a direct involvement in NAFLD motives, which were NFκB1, NFκB2, TNF, ADIPOQ, and IL-6. In conclusion, we suggested a relationship between RUNX1 and NAFLD since RUNX1 seems to regulate NAFLD molecular pathways, posing it as a potential therapeutic target of NAFLD, although more studies in this field are needed.
The recent identification of the potential for clonal replication in patients with unexplained cytopenias, resulting in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or myeloid malignancies, has opened the way to identifying a new precursor entity: clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS). CCUS has come into the spotlight in recent years with the detection of molecular abnormalities in cytogenetic studies, fluorescence in situ hybridization, and next-generation sequencing. Several clinical trials and retrospective studies are underway to examine further the associated mutation profiles, study the progression of CCUS to MDS or myeloid neoplasm, and investigate potential treatment options. In this review, we discuss CCUS-related mutations in genes such as DNMT3A, TET2, IDH1/2, ASXL1, KDM6A, PHF6, SF3B1, SRSF2, U2AF1, ZRSR2, RUNX1, BCOR, NRAS, KRAS, KIT, PTEN, CBL, TP53, and ATM. We highlight the most common mutations in CCUS, including those in DNMT3A, TET2, ASXL1, SRSF2, and SF3B1, and high-risk mutations, including those in U2AF1, ZRSR2, SRSF2, JAK2, RUNX1, and TP53. Cognizance of these mutations can guide surveillance and heighten awareness of the need to screen patients with unexplained cytopenia as a means of primary prevention in the realm of MDS and AML. Knowledge of mutation profiles, prognostic risk factors, treatment, and follow-up strategies is evolving, and prospective studies are warranted.
BACKGROUND: Skeletal muscle exhibits remarkable plasticity under both physiological and pathological conditions. One major manifestation of this plasticity is muscle atrophy that is an adaptive response to catabolic stimuli. Because the heterogeneous transcriptome responses to catabolism in different types of muscle cells are not fully characterized, we applied single-nucleus RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) to unveil muscle atrophy related transcriptional changes at single nucleus resolution.METHODS: Using a sciatic denervation mouse model of muscle atrophy, snRNA-seq was performed to generate single-nucleus transcriptional profiles of the gastrocnemius muscle from normal and denervated mice. Various bioinformatics analyses, including unsupervised clustering, functional enrichment analysis, trajectory analysis, regulon inference, metabolic signature characterization and cell-cell communication prediction, were applied to illustrate the transcriptome changes of the individual cell types.RESULTS: A total of 29 539 muscle nuclei (normal vs. denervation: 15 739 vs. 13 800) were classified into 13 nuclear types according to the known cell markers. Among these, the type IIb myonuclei were further divided into two subgroups, which we designated as type IIb1 and type IIb2 myonuclei. In response to denervation, the proportion of type IIb2 myonuclei increased sharply (78.12% vs. 38.45%, P < 0.05). Concomitantly, trajectory analysis revealed that denervated type IIb2 myonuclei clearly deviated away from the normal type IIb2 myonuclei, indicating that this subgroup underwent robust transcriptional reprogramming upon denervation. Signature genes in denervated type IIb2 myonuclei included Runx1, Gadd45a, Igfn1, Robo2, Dlg2, and Sh3d19 (P < 0.001). The gene regulatory network analysis captured a group of atrophy-related regulons (Foxo3, Runx1, Elk4, and Bhlhe40) whose activities were enhanced (P < 0.01), especially in the type IIb2 myonuclei. The metabolic landscape in the myonuclei showed that most of the metabolic pathways were down-regulated by denervation (P < 0.001), while some of the metabolic signalling, such as glutathione metabolism, was specifically activated in the denervated type IIb2 myonulei. We also investigated the transcriptomic alterations in the type I myofibres, muscle stem cells, fibro-adipogenic progenitors, macrophages, endothelial cells and pericytes and characterized their signature responses to denervation. By predicting the cell-cell interactions, we observed that the communications between myofibres and muscle resident cells were diminished by denervation.CONCLUSIONS: Our results define the myonuclear transition, metabolic remodelling, and gene regulation networks reprogramming associated with denervation-induced muscle atrophy and illustrate the molecular basis of the heterogeneity and plasticity of muscle cells in response to catabolism. These results provide a useful resource for exploring the molecular mechanism of muscle atrophy.
Comment in    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2022 Aug;19(8):488.
Advanced systemic mastocytosis (AdvSM) is characterized by the presence of KIT D816V and other somatic mutations (eg, in SRSF2, ASXL1, and RUNX1) in 95% and 60% to 70% of patients, respectively. The biological and clinical consequences of AdvSM include multilineage involvement (eg, associated hematologic neoplasm) in 60% to 80% of patients, variable infiltration and damage (C-findings) of predominantly bone marrow and visceral organs through affected mast cell (MC) and non-MC lineages, and elevated levels of serum tryptase. Recently, the treatment landscape has substantially changed with the introduction of the multikinase/KIT inhibitor midostaurin and the selective KIT D816V inhibitor avapritinib. In this review, we discuss the evolution of AdvSM response criteria that have been developed to better capture clinical benefit (eg, improved responses and progression-free and overall survival). We propose refined response criteria from European Competence Network on Mastocytosis and American Initiative in Mast Cell Diseases investigators that use a tiered approach to segregate the effects of histopathologic (eg, bone marrow MC burden, tryptase), molecular (eg, KIT D816V variant allele frequency), clinical (eg, C-findings), and symptom response on long-term outcomes. These response criteria require evaluation in future prospective clinical trials of selective KIT inhibitors and other novel agents.
The purpose of this study was to identify the biomarkers implicated in the development of intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) and potential regulatory pathways. In the transcriptomic data for patients with ICH, we identified DEmiRNAs and DEmRNAs related to hypoxia, inflammation, and their transcription factors (TFs). An ICH-based miRNA-TF-mRNA regulatory network was thus constructed, and four biomarkers (TIMP1, PLAUR, DDIT3, and CD40) were screened for their association with inflammation or hypoxia by machine learning. Following this, SP3 was found to be a transcription factor involved in hypoxia and inflammation, which regulates TIMP1 and PLAUR. From the constructed miRNA-TF-mRNA regulatory network, we identified three axes, hsa-miR-940/RUNX1/TIMP1, hsa-miR-571/SP3/TIMP1, and hsa-miR-571/SP3/PLAUR, which may be involved in the development of ICH. Upregulated TIMP1 and PLAUR were validated in an independent clinical cohort 3 days after ICH onset. According to Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), SP3 was discovered to be important in interleukin signaling and platelet activation for hemostasis. Transcription factor SP3 associated with hypoxia or inflammation plays an important role in development of ICH. This study provides potential targets for monitoring the severity of inflammation and hypoxia in patients with ICH.
High-throughput sequencing (HTS) of the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) locus is a recent very efficient technique to monitor minimal residual disease of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL). It also reveals the sequences of clonal rearrangements, therefore, the multiclonal structure, of BCP-ALL. In this study, we performed IgH HTS on the diagnostic bone marrow of 105 children treated between 2004 and 2008 in Belgium for BCP-ALL in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-58951 clinical trial. Patients were included irrespectively of their outcome. We described the patterns of clonal complexity at diagnosis and investigated its association with patients' characteristics. Two indicators of clonal complexity were used, namely, the number of foster clones, described as clones with similar D-N2-J rearrangements but other V-rearrangement and N1-joining, and the maximum across all foster clones of the number of evolved clones from one foster clone. The maximum number of evolved clones was significantly higher in patients with t(12;21)/ETV6:RUNX1. A lower number of foster clones was associated with a higher risk group after prephase and t(12;21)/ETV6:RUNX1 genetic type. This study observes that clonal complexity as accessed by IgH HTS is linked to prognostic factors in childhood BCP-ALL, suggesting that it may be a useful diagnostic tool for BCP-ALL status and prognosis.
Comment in    Haematologica. 2023 Mar 01;108(3):668-669.
In response to various types of infection, naïve CD4+ T cells differentiate into diverse helper T cell subsets; however, the epigenetic programs that regulate differentiation in response to viral infection remain poorly understood. Demethylation of CpG dinucleotides by Tet methylcytosine dioxygenases is a key component of epigenetic programing that promotes specific gene expression, cellular differentiation, and function. We report that following viral infection, Tet2-deficient CD4+ T cells preferentially differentiate into highly functional germinal center T follicular helper (TFH) cells that provide enhanced help for B cells. Using genome-wide DNA methylation and transcription factor binding analyses, we find that Tet2 coordinates with multiple transcription factors, including Foxo1 and Runx1, to mediate the demethylation and expression of target genes, including genes encoding repressors of TFH differentiation. Our findings establish Tet2 as an important regulator of TFH cell differentiation and reveal pathways that could be targeted to enhance immune responses against infectious disease.
OBJECTIVE: Myeloid malignancies are heterogeneous disorders due to defective hematopoiesis and myeloid differentiation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cell. The molecular landscape of the diseases is complex. Molecular alterations are used for classification and evaluation of prognosis and treatment. We aimed to evaluate the advantages of the next-generation sequencing panel testing in myeloid malignancies and clinical outcomes.MATERIALS AND METHODS: We evaluated the results of 54 patients who underwent next-generation sequenc- ing myeloid panel testing, with fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), polymerase chain reaction results and the clinical outcomes. Target genes in the panel were ASXL1, CALR, CBL, CEBPA, CSF3R, DNMT3A, EZH2, FLT3, IDH1, IDH2, JAK2, KIT, KRAS, MPL, NPM1, NRAS, RUNX1, SETBP1, SF3B1, SH2B3, SRSF2, TET2, TP53, U2AF1, and ZRSR2.RESULTS: Diagnoses were acute myeloid leukemia, essential thrombocytosis, polistemia vera, primary myelo- fibrosis, hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES), chronic myeloid leukemia, myelodysplastic syndromes, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Twenty-eight missense, 8 frameshift, 5 stop gain, and 3 in-frame mutations were detected. A double mutation was detected in JAK-2 with next-generation sequencing in the patient who was given a false negative result due to polymerase chain reaction limitation.CONCLUSION: Screening multiple mutations simultaneously, is time and cost-effective. With the panel test, it is possible to determine the diagnosis, prognosis and targeted treatment options with a single test. Next- generation sequencing myeloid panel tests might be a powerful guide for clinicians.
BACKGROUND: This study sought to clarify the role of Runt-related transcription factor 1's (RUNX1's) regulation of downstream circular ribonucleic acid (circRNA) in the occurrence and development of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and to explore its mechanism of action.METHODS: The levels of RUNX1 were analyzed in PTC tumor tissues and adjacent non-tumor tissues in different types and at different stages via reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). The expression pattern and functional role of RUNX1 were analyzed in PTC cells via RT-qPCR, Western blotting, and Transwell assays. This study explored the differential expression of circRNA and microRNA (miRNA) in cells after knocking down RUNX1 through high-throughput sequencing and examined the changes in downstream signaling pathways through Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analyses.RESULTS: RUNX1 was upregulated in PTC tissues, and the expression levels of RUNX1 were related to PTC stage. The knockdown of RUNX1 inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of cells. The high-throughput sequencing results showed that after RUNX1 knockdown, 29 circRNAs (11 upregulated and 18 downregulated) and 20 miRNAs (8 upregulated and 12 downregulated) had the most significant differential expression. The GO analysis of the differential circRNA downstream genes showed that the iron channel-related pathways, endosomal transport, learning, and memory pathways had the largest number of differential genes, and the most significant changes. The KEGG analysis showed that there were 2 pathways with P values <0.05; that is, the glycosaminoglycan synthesis and transcription dysregulation pathways. The GO analysis of the differential miRNA downstream genes showed that the protein binding and cytoplasmic pathways had the largest number of differential genes and the greatest level of difference. The KEGG analysis showed that the tumor-related pathways, phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase and protein kinase B, glycoprotein, cytoskeleton, Ras, and Rap1 pathways changed the most significantly.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX1 is highly expressed in PTC. We conducted high-throughput sequencing to analyze the effect of knocking down RUNX1 on the levels of circRNA and miRNA in PTC. The GO and KEGG analyses revealed that the iron channel-related pathways, endosomal transport, learning and memory, glycosaminoglycan synthesis, and transcriptional disorder-related signaling pathways were enriched.
To evaluate the frequency and prognosis of runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and additional sex combs like-1 (ASXL1) mutations in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) patients in northeastern Iran. This cross-sectional study was performed on 40 patients with AML (including 35 patients with denovo AML and five patients with secondary AML) from February 2018 to February 2021. All patients were followed up for 36 months. We evaluated the frequency and survival rate of RUNX1 and ASXL1 mutations in AML patients. To detect mutations, peripheral blood samples and bone marrow aspiration were taken from all participants. One male patient (2.5%) had RUNX1 mutations and four cases (10%; 3 females vs. 1 male) had ASXL1 mutations. The survival rates of AML patients after 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 24 and 36 months were 98%, 90%, 77%, 62%, 52%, 27% and 20%, respectively. There was a significant relationship between the occurrence of ASXL1 mutations and the survival of patients with AML (p = 0.027). Also, there was a significant relationship between the incidence of death and haemoglobin levels in patients with AML (p = 0.045). Thus, with an increase of one unit in patients' haemoglobin levels, the risk of death is reduced by 16.6%. Patients with AML had a high mortality rate, poor therapy outcome and low survival rate. ASXL1 and RUNX1 mutations are associated with a worse prognosis in patients with newly diagnosed AML. Also, we witnessed that the prevalence of ASXL1 to RUNX1 mutations was higher in northeastern Iran compared with other regions.
OBJECTIVE: T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-LBL) is an aggressive neoplasm of precursor T cells, however, detailed genome-wide sequencing of large T-LBL cohorts has not been performed due to its rarity. The purpose of this study was to identify putative driver genes in T-LBL.METHODS: To gain insight into the genetic mechanisms of T-LBL development, we performed whole-exome sequencing on 41 paired tumor-normal DNA samples from patients with T-LBL.RESULTS: We identified 32 putative driver genes using whole-exome sequencing in 41 T-LBL cases, many of which have not previously been described in T-LBL, such as Janus kinase 3 (JAK3), Janus kinase 1 (JAK1), Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and Wilms' tumor suppressor gene 1 (WT1). When comparing the genetic alterations of T-LBL to T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), we found that JAK-STAT and RAS pathway mutations were predominantly observed in T-LBL (58.5% and 34.1%, respectively), whereas Notch and cell cycle signaling pathways mutations were more prevalent in T-ALL. Notably, besides notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1), mutational status of plant homeodomain (PHD)-like finger protein 6 (PHF6) was identified as another independent factor for good prognosis. Of utmost interest is that co-existence of PHF6 and NOTCH1 mutation status might provide an alternative for early therapeutic stratification in T-LBL.CONCLUSIONS: Together, our findings will not only provide new insights into the molecular and genetic mechanisms of T-LBL, but also have tangible implications for clinical practice.
ETV6::RUNX1 is a genetic rearrangement of good prognosis in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). In Mexico, its prevalence is low in comparison with Caucasian populations. We developed a novel TaqMan one-step RT-qPCR approach to assess the prevalence of four genetic rearrangements in a cohort of Hispanic children with ALL from Mexico City. The prevalence of common fusion gene transcripts was as follows: TCF3::PBX1 7.7%; BCR::ABL1p 190 3.3%; and KMT2A::AFF1 2.8%, and ETV6::RUNX1was observed with low prevalence (10.5%) in comparison to that reported for developed countries. This is consistent with previous findings on Mexican children with ALL and similar to those reported on children from Hispanic populations. The confirmation of a low prevalence of ETV6::RUNX1 in children of a Hispanic origin represents an advancement in the description of genetic factors of ALL in these populations.
The European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria define the adverse genetic factors of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). AML with adverse genetic factors uniformly shows resistance to standard chemotherapy and is associated with poor prognosis. Here, we focus on the biological background and real-world etiology of these adverse genetic factors and then describe a strategy to overcome the clinical disadvantages in terms of targeting pivotal molecular mechanisms. Different adverse genetic factors often rely on common pathways. KMT2A rearrangement, DEK-NUP214 fusion, and NPM1 mutation are associated with the upregulation of HOX genes. The dominant tyrosine kinase activity of the mutant FLT3 or BCR-ABL1 fusion proteins is transduced by the AKT-mTOR, MAPK-ERK, and STAT5 pathways. Concurrent mutations of ASXL1 and RUNX1 are associated with activated AKT. Both TP53 mutation and mis-expressed MECOM are related to impaired apoptosis. Clinical data suggest that adverse genetic factors can be found in at least one in eight AML patients and appear to accumulate in relapsed/refractory cases. TP53 mutation is associated with particularly poor prognosis. Molecular-targeted therapies focusing on specific genomic abnormalities, such as FLT3, KMT2A, and TP53, have been developed and have demonstrated promising results.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Air Force Medical University (Tangdu Hospital), Xi'an 710038, Shaanxi Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Air Force Medical University (Tangdu Hospital), Xi'an 710038, Shaanxi Province, China,E-mail: liuli1@medmail.com.cn.
Author information:(1)Laboratory Center, Affiliated People's Hospital of Jiangsu University,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China，Zhenjiang Clinical Research Center of Hematology,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Zhenjiang Clinical Research Center of Hematology,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China，Department of Hematology, Affiliated People's Hospital of Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China.(3)Zhenjiang Clinical Research Center of Hematology,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China，Department of Hematology, Affiliated People's Hospital of Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China,E-mail: qianjun0007@hotmail.com.(4)Laboratory Center, Affiliated People's Hospital of Jiangsu University,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China，Zhenjiang Clinical Research Center of Hematology,Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China,E-mail: 2651329493@qq.com.
Consortin (CNST) is a protein located on the trans-Golgi network that can target transmembrane proteins to the plasma membrane. Although CNST was discovered more than 10 years ago, there are still not enough studies on its function. During our search for possible new acute myeloid leukemia (AML) markers, we found that CNST was overexpressed in almost all patients with AML. By analyzing profiling data from public databases, we found that CNST expression inversely correlated with overall survival among AML patients. There was a great variation in CNST expression among different subtypes of AML, and the expression was the highest in the t(8,21) subtype, which was probably due to the direct regulation of CNST transcription by RUNX1-RUNX1T1. In addition, we analyzed the expression of CNST in different cells of the hematopoietic system. We found that CNST was associated with the low differentiation degrees of hematopoietic cells and had the highest expression level in leukemia stem cells (LSCs). Finally, we analyzed the CNST-related gene network and found that the genes negatively correlated with CNST are involved in various immune-related pathways, which indicates that CNST is likely related to immune evasion, LSC niche retention, and assembly of stress granules. In conclusion, our study suggests that CNST has the potential to be a diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for AML.
Ferroptosis is a widespread form of programmed cell death. The environment of cancer cells makes them vulnerable to ferroptosis, including AML cells, yet the specific association between ferroptosis and AML outcome is little known. In this study, we utilized ferroptosis-related genes to distinguish two subtypes in TCGA cohort, which were subsequently validated in independent AML cohorts. The subtypes were linked with tumor-related immunological abnormalities, mutation landscape and pathway dysregulation, and clinical outcome. Further, we developed a 13-gene prognostic model for AML from DEG analysis in the two subtypes. A risk score was calculated for each patient, and then the overall group was stratified into high- and low-risk groups; the higher risk score correlated with short survival. The model was validated in both independent AML cohorts and pan-cancer cohorts, which demonstrated robustness and extended the usage of the model. A nomogram was constructed that integrated risk score, FLT3-ITD, TP53, and RUNX1 mutations, and age. This model had the additional value of discriminating the sensitivity of several chemotherapeutic drugs and ferroptosis inducers in the two risk groups, which increased the translational value of this model as a potential tool in clinical management. Through integrated analysis of ferroptosis pattern and its related model, our work shed new light on the relationship between ferroptosis and AML, which may facilitate clinical application and therapeutics.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to identify potential therapeutic targets by examining the hub genes contributing to progression of intracranial aneurysm (IA) in patients with hypertension.METHODS: The bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) datasets of hypertension and IA were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/geo) database. These data were then used to calculate disease-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) at the individual level. An scRNA-seq dataset of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) was used to analyze monocyte/macrophage-related DEGs. On the basis of the DEG data related to monocytes and macrophages, a TF-genes network has been developed. Hub genes and core sub-networks have also been identified. Furthermore, the key genes have been validated in an external cohort.RESULTS: From combined monocyte and macrophage-derived DEGs from abdominal aortic aneurysms, five hub DEGs were detected, including IFI30, SERPINE1, HMOX1, IL24, and RUNX1. A total of 57 genes were found in the IA bulk RNA-seq dataset. A support vector machine-recursive feature elimination algorithm (SVM-RFE) was applied to further screen the seven genes (RPS4Y1, DDX3Y, RUNX1, CLEC10A, PLAC8, SLA, and LILRB3). RUNX1 was the hub gene that regulated NFKB1 in the monocyte/macrophage-related network. And RUNX1 is implicated in IA progression by regulating hematopoietic stem cell differentiation and abnormal platelet production, according to gene set enrichment analysis.CONCLUSION: Among patients with hypertension, RUNX1 in monocytes and macrophages was associated with a higher risk of IA through its regulation of NFKB1.
Transcription factor RUNX1 plays key roles in the establishment and maintenance of the hematopoietic system. Although RUNX1 has been considered a beneficial tumor suppressor, several recent reports have described the tumor-promoting role of RUNX1 in a variety of hematopoietic neoplasms. In this study, we assessed the effect of RUNX1 depletion in multiple human leukemia cell lines using the Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR)/Cas9 system, and confirmed that RUNX1 is in fact required for sustaining their leukemic proliferation. To achieve efficient RUNX1 inhibition in leukemia cells, we then examined the effect of lipid nanoparticle (LNP)-mediated delivery of RUNX1-targeting small interfering (si)RNA using two tumor-tropic LNPs. The LNPs containing RUNX1-targeting siRNA were efficiently incorporated into myeloid and T-cell leukemia cell lines and patient-derived primary human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells, downregulated RUNX1 expression, induced cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, and exhibited the growth-inhibitory effect in them. In contrast, the LNPs were not efficiently incorporated into normal cord blood CD34+ cells, indicating their minimum cytotoxicity. Thus, our study highlights RUNX1 as a potential therapeutic target to inhibit leukemogenesis, and provides the LNP-based siRNA delivery as a promising approach to deplete RUNX1 specifically in leukemia cells.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, People's Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 100044, China.
Systemic mastocytosis (SM) is a rare clonal haematopoietic stem cell disease in which activating KIT mutations (most commonly KIT D816V) are present in virtually every (>90%) adult patient at similar frequencies among non-advanced and advanced forms of SM. The KIT D816V mutation is considered the most common pathogenic driver of SM. Acquisition of this mutation early during haematopoiesis may cause multilineage involvement of haematopoiesis by KIT D816V, which has been associated with higher tumour burden and additional mutations in other genes, leading to an increased rate of transformation to advanced SM. Thus, among other mutations, alterations in around 30 genes that are also frequently mutated in other myeloid neoplasms have been reported in SM cases. From these genes, 12 (i.e., ASXL1, CBL, DNMT3A, EZH2, JAK2, KRAS, NRAS, SF3B1, RUNX1, SF3B1, SRSF2, TET2) have been recurrently reported to be mutated in SM. Because of all the above, assessment of multilineage involvement of haematopoiesis by the KIT D816V mutation, in the setting of multi-mutated haematopoiesis as revealed by a limited panel of genes (i.e., ASXL1, CBL, DNMT3A, EZH2, NRAS, RUNX1 and SRSF2) and associated with a poorer patient outcome, has become of great help to identify SM patients at higher risk of disease progression and/or poor survival who could benefit from closer follow-up and eventually also early cytoreductive treatment.
The addition of Venetoclax (VEN) to Hypomethylating agents (HMAs) significantly improves the probability of complete remission and prolongs survival in patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) when compared to HMA alone. However, the mutated clone composition may impact the probability of response and its duration. Here, we describe the molecular profile of a patient with AML rapidly evolved from a previous therapy-related-Chronic MyeloMonocytic Leukemia, who achieved safely complete remission after treatment with the VEN/Azacitidine combination, even in the presence of SARS-COVID-2 infection. The targeted NGS analysis showed that the VEN/AZA combination led to the eradication of the FLT3-ITD and RUNX1 mutated clone/s primarily associated with AML evolution, and subsequently, the SRSF2, NRAS, and ASXL1 mutated clone/s. This case also underlines the importance of the sequential use of targeted NGS for disease monitoring: the deep molecular remission achieved by this patient allowed to safely guide adjustments of drug dosage and treatment intervals in the presence of neutropenia, helping to rule out disease progression.
Clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) is characterized by persistent cytopenias with genetic aberrations, which do not meet the diagnostic criteria for myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). We aimed to compare the clinical and genetic characteristics of CCUS with lower-risk MDS and identify patients with CCUS with a high risk of progression. We performed targeted sequencing of bone marrow (BM) samples from patients with idiopathic cytopenia of undetermined significance (ICUS) (n = 139) and MDS (n = 226). Overall survival (OS) of patients with CCUS (n = 78) was worse than non-clonal ICUS (n = 61) and superior to lower-risk MDS (n = 99). Patients with CCUS showed similar characteristics to those with lower-risk MDS, except for higher haemoglobin, lower BM cellularity, and less frequent SF3B1 mutations. Lower haemoglobin, DDX41 (biallelic germline and somatic), ETV6, and RUNX1 mutations were independent prognostic factors for worse OS. Lower haemoglobin and DDX41 mutations were also associated with lower progression-free survival. Patients with CCUS with high-risk features showed similar or worse OS than patients with lower-risk MDS. Our findings suggest that patients with CCUS having certain clinical or genetic features should be regarded and treated as lower-risk MDS despite lacking significant dysplasia or MDS-associated chromosomal abnormalities.
BACKGROUND: Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is a rare and heterogeneous hematological malignancy. It has been shown that the molecular abnormalities such as ASXL1, TET2, SETBP1, and SRSF2 mutations are common in Caucasian population.METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 178 Chinese CMML patients. The targeted next generation sequencing (NGS) was used to evaluate 114 gene variations, and the prognostic factors for OS were determined by COX regression analysis.RESULTS: The CMML patients showed a unique mutational spectrum, including TET2 (36.5%), NRAS (31.5%), ASXL1 (28.7%), SRSF2 (24.7%), and RUNX1 (21.9%). Of the 102 patients with clonal analysis, the ancestral events preferentially occurred in TET2 (18.5%), splicing factors (16.5%), RAS (14.0%), and ASXL1 (7.8%), and the subclonal genes were mainly ASXL1, TET2, and RAS. In addition, the secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML) transformed from CMML often had mutations in DNMT3A, ETV6, FLT3, and NPM1, while the primary AML (pAML) demonstrated more mutations in CEBPA, DNMT3A, FLT3, IDH1/2, NPM1, and WT1. It was of note that a series of clones were emerged during the progression from CMML to AML, including DNMT3A, FLT3, and NPM1. By univariate analysis, ASXL1 mutation, intermediate- and high-risk cytogenetic abnormality, CMML-specific prognostic scoring system (CPSS) stratifications (intermediate-2 and high group), and treatment options (best supportive care) predicted for worse OS. Multivariate analysis revealed a similar outcome.CONCLUSIONS: The common mutations in Chinese CMML patients included epigenetic modifiers (TET2 and ASXL1), signaling transduction pathway components (NRAS), and splicing factor (SRSF2). The CMML patients with DNMT3A, ETV6, FLT3, and NPM1 mutations tended to progress to sAML. ASXL1 mutation and therapeutic modalities were independent prognostic factors for CMML.
RUNX1 has long known for its role in hematopoiesis until recently it is implicated in human breast cancer pathogenesis. This has drawn attention in research as elevated expression of RUNX1 has been observed in invasive breast cancer, and mutations of the RUNX1 gene and its binding partner CBFβ have been identified in luminal breast cancer patients, many of which have attributed to the development and progression of the disease. Increasing number of evidence also shows the involvement of RUNX1 in breast cancer migration and invasion that may lead to breast cancer metastasis. However, more studies need to be conducted to better understand its roles in these particular subtypes in breast cancer. This is important as evidence so far indicates that there are discrepancies with regards to the roles of RUNX1 in ER-positive and ER-negative breast cancer, both of which have posted a great challenge to recognize whether its deregulation is protecting or promoting breast cancer. This warrants further analysis to glean more information especially considering the perturbation of RUNX1 is mainly reported in ER-positive breast cancer. In this review, the roles of RUNX1 in breast cancer are discussed in a context dependent manner based on its involvement in the development and progression of the disease. The association of RUNX1 with other types of cancer is also included to emphasize a wider and possibly a different angle of involvement of RUNX1 in cancer.
BACKGROUND: There is growing evidence for the inherited basis of susceptibility to childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Genome-wide association studies have identified non-coding ALL risk variants at the ARID5B gene locus, but their exact functional effects and the molecular mechanism linking ARID5B to B-cell ALL leukemogenesis remain largely unknown.METHODS: We performed targeted sequencing of ARID5B in germline DNA of 5008 children with ALL. Variants were evaluated for association with ALL susceptibility using 3644 patients from the UK10K cohort as non-ALL controls, under an additive model. Cis-regulatory elements in ARID5B were systematically identified using dCas9-KRAB-mediated enhancer interference system enhancer screen in ALL cells. Disruption of transcription factor binding by ARID5B variant was predicted informatically and then confirmed using chromatin immunoprecipitation and coimmunoprecipitation. ARID5B variant association with hematological traits was examined using UK Biobank dataset. All statistical tests were 2-sided.RESULTS: We identified 54 common variants in ARID5B statistically significantly associated with leukemia risk, all of which were noncoding. Six cis-regulatory elements at the ARID5B locus were discovered using CRISPR-based high-throughput enhancer screening. Strikingly, the top ALL risk variant (rs7090445, P = 5.57 × 10-45) is located precisely within the strongest enhancer element, which is also distally tethered to the ARID5B promoter. The variant allele disrupts the MEF2C binding motif sequence, resulting in reduced MEF2C affinity and decreased local chromosome accessibility. MEF2C influences ARID5B expression in ALL, likely via a transcription factor complex with RUNX1. Using the UK Biobank dataset (n = 349 861), we showed that rs7090445 was also associated with lymphocyte percentage and count in the general population (P = 8.6 × 10-22 and 2.1 × 10-18, respectively).CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that ALL risk variants in ARID5B function by modulating cis-regulatory elements at this locus.
Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and lethal type of primary malignant central nervous system (CNS) tumor with an extremely poor prognosis, and the mesenchymal subtype of GBM has the worst prognosis. Here, we found that lncRNA PRADX was overexpressed in the mesenchymal GBM and was transcriptionally regulated by RUNX1-CBFβ complex, overexpressed PRADX suppressed BLCAP expression via interacting with EZH2 and catalyzing trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3). Moreover, we showed that BLCAP interacted with STAT3 and reduced STAT3 phosphorylation, overexpressed PRADX activated STAT3 phosphorylation, and promoted ACSL1 expression via suppressing BLCAP expression, accelerating tumor metabolism. Finally, we determined that combined of ACSL1 and CPT1 inhibitors could reverse the accelerated cellular metabolism and tumor growth induced by PRADX overexpression in vivo and in vitro. Collectively, PRADX/PRC2 complex activated the STAT3 pathway and energy metabolism in relation to mesenchymal GBM progression. Furthermore, our findings provided a novel therapeutic strategy targeting the energy metabolism activity of GBM.
The intrinsic factors that determine the fundamental traits of engraftment ability and multi-lineage potential of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) remain elusive. The induction of bona fade HSCs from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) in dishes is urgently demanded but remains a great challenge in translational medicine. Runx1, Hoxa9, Hlf, and Hoxa7 are developmentally co-expressed during endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition and adult haematopoiesis. However, the expression of these factors fails to be turned on during in vitro hematopoietic induction from PSCs. Here, we established an inducible gene over-expression embryonic stem cell (ESC) line in which exogenous Runx1, Hoxa9, Hlf, and Hoxa7 genes were tandemly knocked in. A population of induced hematopoietic progenitor cells (iHPCs) expressing Kit and Sca1 surface markers were successfully obtained in vitro from the gene edited-ESC line. Upon transplantation of the Runx1-Hoxa9-Hlf-Hoxa7 ESC-derived iHPCs into irradiated immunodeficient mice, they can dominantly contribute to B cells, low proportions of T cells and myeloid cells. However, Runx1-Hoxa9-Hlf ESC-derived iHPCs only produced B lineage cells with extremely low contributions. Our study unveils that the coordination of Runx1, Hoxa9, Hlf, and Hoxa7 led to generation of the hematopoietic progenitors with the capacity of multi-lineage hematopoietic reconstitution in the immunodeficient recipient mice.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to investigate the potential role of synovial fibroblasts (SFs) in the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to identify potential molecular targets and provide a theoretical basis for the treatment of RA.METHODS: GSE109449, a fibroblast transcriptome dataset of synovial tissue from RA and osteoarthritis (OA), were obtained from the GEO database. After standard cell quality control, this single-cell transcriptome data was used to perform routine single-cell analysis processes. After completing dimensionality reduction, clustering, and cell subset identification of fibroblasts, the SCENIC analysis helped calculate the significant gene regulatory networks in fibroblasts and their subsets. From these computed gene regulatory networks, the regulon in which follistatin-like protein 1 (FSTL1) resides was extracted and used to analyze the transcriptional regulatory status of fibroblasts. Finally, the gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was used to calculate the respective enriched gene sets of IRF1 and FSTL1.RESULTS: Three SF subgroups were identified from the single-cell transcriptome analysis; SF subset 3 was more abundant in RA than in OA (p < 0.001). From the SCENIC analysis, we obtained 269 regulons and the corresponding gene regulatory networks in SF from the RA datasets. Next, we screened and obtained a regulon-containing FSTL1, where IRF1 was the major transcription factor. The top five regulons in SF subset 3 were TWIST1, MECOM, KLF6, MAFB, and RUNX1. Among the 3 SF subsets, IRF1 regulon was ranked the highest in SF subset 3. Differential analysis of pseudobulk RNA-seq showed that IRF1 was up-regulated in RA compared to OA. Between the three SF subgroups, IRF1 and FSTL1 expression was more up-regulated in SF subset 3 compared to the other two subgroups.CONCLUSIONS: IRF1 was found to regulate the invasiveness of SFs by regulating FSTL1, which may influence the disease progression of RA.
BACKGROUND: Thrombocytopenia (TP) remains a challenge in clinical hematology. TP may have serious consequences, such as recurrent skin and mucosal bleeding and increased risk of intracranial and internal organ hemorrhage. However, effective and safe therapeutic drugs for the long-term management of TP are still lacking.PURPOSE: This study aimed to identify more effective active compounds for TP therapy.METHODS: Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-nuclear magnetic resonance analysis was used to confirm the medicinal species and chemical structure of Hirsutine (HS). The proliferation of HS was examined by Cell Counting Kit (CCK-8) assay on cells lines. The effect of HS on megakaryocyte differentiation was analyzed by evaluating the expression of CD41, CD42b, and DNA ploidy via flow cytometry (FCM). The morphology of megakaryocytes and intermediate cells was observed using an optical microscope. K562 cells were then stained with Giemsa and benzidine. qRT-PCR was used to examine the mRNA expression of GATA-1, GATA-2, FOG-1, TAL-1, RUNX-1, NF-E2, and KLF-1 in K562 cells. Protein levels of the transcription factors were analyzed by western blotting. An MEK inhibitor was used to verify the relationship between the MEK/ERK signaling pathway and CD41/CD42b (FCM), FOG-1, and TAL-1. The Kunming thrombocytopenia mouse model was established by X-ray irradiation (4 Gy) and used to test HS activity and related hematopoietic organ index in vivo. Finally, computer simulations of molecular docking were used to predict the binding energies between HS-MEK and HS-ERK.RESULTS: We preliminarily identified HS by screening a plant-sourced compound library for natural compounds with megakaryocytic differentiation and maturation (MKD/MKM)-promoting activity. We found that HS not only enhanced MKD/MKM of K562 and Meg01 cells, but also suppressed the decline of peripheral platelet levels in X-ray-induced myelosuppressive mice. In addition, HS promoted MKD via activation of MEK-ERK-FOG1/TAL1 signaling, which may be the key molecular mechanism of HS action in TP treatment. Molecular docking simulations further verified that HS targets the signaling protein MEK with high-affinity.CONCLUSION: In this study, we report for the first time that hirsutine boosts MKD/MKM through the MEK/ERK/FOG1/TAL1 signaling pathway and thus represents a promising treatment option for TP.
Engineered T cells have been shown to be highly effective in cancer immunotherapy, although T cell exhaustion presents a challenge for their long-term function. Additional T-cell sources must be exploited to broaden the application of engineered T cells for immune defense and reconstitution. Unlimited sources of pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) have provided a potential opportunity to generate precise-engineered therapeutic induced T (iT) cells. Single-cell transcriptome analysis of PSC-derived induced hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (iHSPC)/iT identified the developmental pathways and possibilities of generating functional T cell from PSCs. To date, the PSC-to-iT platforms encounter several problems, including low efficiency of conventional T subset specification, limited functional potential, and restrictions on large-scale application, because of the absence of a thymus-like organized microenvironment. The updated PSC-to-iT platforms, such as the three-dimensional (3D) artificial thymic organoid (ATO) co-culture system and Runx1/Hoxa9-enforced iT lymphopoiesis, provide fresh perspectives for coordinating culture conditions and transcription factors, which may greatly improve the efficiency of T-cell generation greatly. In addition, the improved PSC-to-iT platform coordinating gene editing technologies will provide various functional engineered unconventional or conventional T cells. Furthermore, the clinical applications of PSC-derived immune cells are accelerating from bench to bedside.
Acute myeloid leukemia with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MRC) includes heterogeneous conditions such as previous history and specific cytogenetic and morphological properties. In this study, we analyze genetic aberrations using an RNA-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel assay in 45 patients with AML-MRC and detect 4 gene fusions of KMT2A-SEPT9, KMT2A-ELL, NUP98-NSD1, and RUNX1-USP42 and 81 somatic mutations. Overall, all patients had genetic aberrations comprising of not only cytogenetic changes, but also gene fusions and mutations. We also demonstrated several characteristic genetic mutations according to the AML-MRC subgroup. TP53 was the most commonly mutated gene (n = 11, 24%) and all were found in the AML-MRC subgroup with myelodysplastic syndrome-defining cytogenetic abnormalities (AML-MRC-C) (p = 0.002). These patients showed extremely poor overall survival not only in AML-MRC, but also within the AML-MRC-C subgroup. The ASXL1 (n = 9, 20%) and SRSF2 (n = 7, 16%) mutations were associated with the AML-MRC subgroup with >50% dysplasia in at least two lineages (AML-MRC-M) and were frequently co-mutated (55%, 6/11, p < 0.001). Both mutations could be used as surrogate markers to diagnose AML-MRC, especially when the assessment of multilineage dysplasia was difficult. IDH1/IDH2 (n = 13, 29%) were most commonly mutated in AML-MRC, followed by CEBPA (n = 5, 11%), PTPN11 (n = 5, 11%), FLT3 (n = 4, 9%), IDH1 (n = 4, 9%), and RUNX1 (n = 4, 9%). These mutations were not limited in any AML-MRC subgroup and could have more significance as a risk factor or susceptibility marker for target therapy in not only AML-MRC, but also other AML categories.
Flow cytometry technique (FC) is a standard diagnostic tool for diagnostics of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) assessing the immunophenotype of blast cells. BCP-ALL is often associated with underlying genetic aberrations, that have evidenced prognostic significance and can impact the disease outcome. Since the determination of patient prognosis is already important at the initial phase of BCP-ALL diagnostics, we aimed to reveal specific genetic aberrations by finding specific multiple antigen expression patterns with FC immunophenotyping. The FC immunophenotype data were analysed using machine learning methods (gradient boosting, decision trees, classification rules). The obtained results were verified with the use of repeated cross-validation. The t(12;21)/ETV6-RUNX1 aberration occurs more often when blasts present high expression of CD10, CD38, low CD34, CD45 and specific low expression of CD81. The t(v;11q23)/KMT2A is associated with positive NG2 expression and low CD10, CD34, TdT and CD24. Hyperdiploidy is associated with CD123, CD66c and CD34 expression on blast cells. In turn, high expression of CD81, low expression of CD45, CD22 and lack of CD123 and NG2 indicates that none of the studied aberrations is present. Detecting aberrations in pediatric BCP-ALL, based on the expression of multiple markers, can be done with decent efficiency.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematological malignancy with no well-established prognostic biomarkers. We examined the expression of protein arginine methyltransferases across hematological malignancies and discovered high levels of PRMT7 mRNA in T-ALL, particularly in the mature subtypes of T-ALL. The genetic deletion of PRMT7 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced the colony formation of T-ALL cells and changed arginine monomethylation patterns in protein complexes associated with the RNA and DNA processing and the T-ALL pathogenesis. Among them was RUNX1, whose target gene expression was consequently deregulated. These results suggest that PRMT7 plays an active role in the pathogenesis of T-ALL.
KIT is a type-III receptor tyrosine kinase that contributes to cell signaling in various cells. Since KIT is activated by overexpression or mutation and plays an important role in the development of some cancers, such as gastrointestinal stromal tumors and mast cell disease, molecular therapies targeting KIT mutations are being developed. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), genome profiling via next-generation sequencing has shown that several genes that are mutated in patients with AML impact patients' prognosis. Moreover, it was suggested that precision-medicine-based treatment using genomic data will improve treatment outcomes for AML patients. This paper presents (1) previous studies regarding the role of KIT mutations in AML, (2) the data in AML with KIT mutations from the HM-SCREEN-Japan-01 study, a genome profiling study for patients newly diagnosed with AML who are unsuitable for the standard first-line treatment (unfit) or have relapsed/refractory AML, and (3) new therapies targeting KIT mutations, such as tyrosine kinase inhibitors and heat shock protein 90 inhibitors. In this era when genome profiling via next-generation sequencing is becoming more common, KIT mutations are attractive novel molecular targets in AML.
RNA sequencing provides a snapshot of the functional consequences of genomic lesions that drive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The aims of this study were to elucidate diagnostic associations (via machine learning) between mRNA-seq profiles, independently verify ALL lesions and develop easy-to-interpret transcriptome-wide biomarkers for ALL subtyping in the clinical setting. A training dataset of 1279 ALL patients from six North American cohorts was used for developing machine learning models. Results were validated in 767 patients from Australia with a quality control dataset across 31 tissues from 1160 non-ALL donors. A novel batch correction method was introduced and applied to adjust for cohort differences. Out of 18,503 genes with usable expression, 11,830 (64%) were confounded by cohort effects and excluded. Six ALL subtypes (ETV6::RUNX1, KMT2A, DUX4, PAX5 P80R, TCF3::PBX1, ZNF384) that covered 32% of patients were robustly detected by mRNA-seq (positive predictive value ≥ 87%). Five other frequent subtypes (CRLF2, hypodiploid, hyperdiploid, PAX5 alterations and Ph-positive) were distinguishable in 40% of patients at lower accuracy (52% ≤ positive predictive value ≤ 73%). Based on these findings, we introduce the Allspice R package to predict ALL subtypes and driver genes from unadjusted mRNA-seq read counts as encountered in real-world settings. Two examples of Allspice applied to previously unseen ALL patient samples with atypical lesions are included.
BACKGROUND: Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury could lead to functional impairment along with disabilities. ACL reconstruction often fails owing to the regeneration failure of tendon-bone interface. Herein, we aimed to investigate the effects of Runt related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) on tendon-bone healing after ACL reconstruction using bone mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs).METHODS: BMSCs were isolated from the marrow cavity of rat femur, followed by the modification of RUNX1 with lentiviral system. Then, an ACL reconstruction model of rats was established with autografts.RESULTS: Results of flow cytometry exhibited positive-antigen CD44 and CD90, as well as negative-antigen CD34 and CD45 of the BMSCs. Then, we found that RUNX1-upregulated BMSCs elevated the decreased biomechanical strength of the tendon grafts after ACL reconstruction. Moreover, based on the histological observation, upregulation of RUNX1 was linked with better recovery around the bone tunnel, a tighter tendon-bone interface, and more collagen fibers compared to the group of BMSCs infected with LV-NC. Next, RUNX1-upregulated BMSCs promoted osteogenesis after ACL reconstruction, as evidenced by the mitigation of severe loss and erosion of the cartilage and bone in the tibial and femur area, as well as the increased number of osteoblasts identified by the upregulation of alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and osteopontin in the tendon-bone interface.CONCLUSION: Elevated expression of RUNX1 contributed to tendon-bone healing after ACL reconstruction using BMSCs.
In bone marrow, special microenvironments, known as niches, are essential for the maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). A population of mesenchymal stem cells, termed CXC chemokine ligand 12 (CXCL12)-abundant reticular (CAR) cells or leptin receptor-expressing cells are the major cellular component of HSC niches. The molecular regulation of HSC niche properties is not fully understood. The role of Runx transcription factors, Runx1 and Runx2 in HSC cellular niches remains unclear. Here we show that Runx1 is predominantly expressed in CAR cells and that mice lacking both Runx1 and Runx2 in CAR cells display an increase in fibrosis and bone formation with markedly reduced hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells in bone marrow. In vitro, Runx1 is induced by the transcription factor Foxc1 and decreases fibrotic gene expression in CAR cells. Thus, HSC cellular niches require Runx1 or Runx2 to prevent their fibrotic conversion and maintain HSCs and hematopoiesis in adults.
INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to determine molecular genetic and clinical characterization of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with trisomy 8 as the sole chromosome abnormality, a recurrent but rare chromosomal abnormality in AML.METHODS: Interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization, reverse transcriptase-quantitative polymerase chain reaction for gene rearrangement and next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed on sole trisomy 8 AML patients.RESULTS: A total of 35 AML patients with trisomy 8 as the sole chromosome abnormality were screened. The most frequently mutated genes were DNMT3A(37.1%), RUNX1(28.6%), FLT3-ITD(28.6%), IDH2(22.9%), NPM1(17.1%), and ASXL1 (14.3%). The sole +8 AML patients exhibited more mutations in RUNX1 (28.6% vs. 4.8%, P = 0.001) and ASXL1 (14.3% vs. 4.8%, P = 0.039) by comparing with normal karyotype AML (NK AML) patients(n = 63). The sole +8 AML patients(n = 35) with RUNX1 or IDH2 mutations showed significantly lower WBC counts, while FLT3-ITD showed higher white blood cell (WBC) counts as compared to the corresponding wild-type groups. Total of 45.7% patients achieved complete remission (CR) after the first induction therapy. The CR rate of patients with FLT3-ITD or IDH1 mutation was significantly lower than that in the corresponding wild-type cases (P = 0.047, 0.005, respectively). The median overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (PFS) were 18.0 (95% CI: 10.8-25.2) and 10 (95% CI: 6.7-13.3) months, respectively. FLT3-ITD mutations and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) were independent prognostic markers for OS in multivariable analysis.CONCLUSION: The results suggest a possible association between trisomy 8 and additional mutations that may influence clinical feature and prognosis.
OBJECTIVES: The current study aimed to explore the incidence of MPL mutations and the clinical and molecular characteristics of AML with MPL mutation.METHODS: In total, 1509 patients with newly diagnosed AML were retrospectively analyzed between January 2017 and December 2020. MPL mutations were detected via next-generation sequencing. During the same period, we also enrolled 30 patients with other myeloid neoplasms (MNs) with MPL mutation, which included myelodysplastic syndrome (n = 15), myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasm (MDS/MPN) (n = 6), and MPN (n = 9). The clinical characteristics of MPL-mutated AML and other types of MNs or MPL-wide type (MPL-wt) AML were compared, and the spectrum of co-mutations and MPL mutation profiles in MPL-mutated AML were analyzed.RESULTS: MPL mutations were identified in 19 (1.26%) of 1509 patients with AML. The waterfall diagram showed that the co-mutations were mainly epigenetic modifications (TET2, IDH1, and EZH2), spliceosomes (SRSF2), and transcription factors (RUNX1). The platelet count of the AML group was significantly lower than that of the MPN group (p = 0.001). MPL mutations were commonly observed in the intracellular region in AML but the transmembrane region in MPN (p = 0.013). The MPL-mutated AML group had a lower white blood cell count and a lower rate of complete remission than the MPL wild-type AML group (p = 0.037).CONCLUSION: MPL mutations are clinically relevant in patients with AML, and they may be a novel subtype characterized by lower white blood cell counts and poor complete remission rates. However, further studies must be conducted to identify its correlated mechanism.
Although the effect of gene mutations on overall response rate (ORR) and overall survival (OS) in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) treated with hypomethylating agents (HMAs) has been explored, the effect is still controversial. We performed this meta-analysis to investigate the effect. The pooled odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for ORR and the pooled hazard ratio (HR) and 95%CI for OS were chosen to estimate the effect. The pooled OR of TET2 was 0.73 (95%CI: 0.59-0.91, p = 0.005) and the pooled OR of ASXL1 was 1.38 (95%CI: 1.12-1.71, p = 0.003). As for prognosis, the pooled HR of RUNX1 was 1.45 (95%CI: 1.15-1.85, p = 0.002). The pooled HR of TP53 was 2.30 (95%CI: 1.83-2.90, p < 0.001) and the pooled HR of U2AF1 was 1.41 (95%CI: 1.15-1.74, p = 0.001). There was no statistical difference shown in other genes. Therefore, TET2 mutation and ASXL1 wild-type were the predictor of better response to HMAs. Mutations of TP53, RUNX1, and U2AF1 were associated with poor prognosis in MDS.
Rearrangements that drive ectopic MEF2C expression have recurrently been found in patients with human early thymocyte progenitor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ETP-ALL). Here, we show high levels of MEF2C expression in patients with ETP-ALL. Using both in vivo and in vitro models of ETP-ALL, we demonstrate that elevated MEF2C expression blocks NOTCH-induced T cell differentiation while promoting a B-lineage program. MEF2C activates a B cell transcriptional program in addition to RUNX1, GATA3, and LMO2; upregulates the IL-7R; and boosts cell survival by upregulation of BCL2. MEF2C and the Notch pathway, therefore, demarcate opposite regulators of B- or T-lineage choices, respectively. Enforced MEF2C expression in mouse or human progenitor cells effectively blocks early T cell differentiation and promotes the development of biphenotypic lymphoid tumors that coexpress CD3 and CD19, resembling human mixed phenotype acute leukemia. Salt-inducible kinase (SIK) inhibitors impair MEF2C activity and alleviate the T cell developmental block. Importantly, this sensitizes cells to prednisolone treatment. Therefore, SIK-inhibiting compounds such as dasatinib are potentially valuable additions to standard chemotherapy for human ETP-ALL.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is a vital regulator of mammalian expression. Despite multiple pieces of evidence indicating that dysregulation of RUNX1 is a common phenomenon in human cancers, there is no evidence from pan-cancer analysis.METHODS: We comprehensively investigated the effect of RUNX1 expression on tumor prognosis across human malignancies by analyzing multiple cancer-related databases, including Gent2, Tumor Immune Estimation Resource (TIMER), Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), the Human Protein Atlas (HPA), UALCAN, PrognoScan, cBioPortal, STRING, and Metascape.RESULTS: Bioinformatics data indicated that RUNX1 was overexpressed in most of these human malignancies and was significantly associated with the prognosis of patients with cancer. Immunohistochemical results showed that most cancer tissues were moderately positive for granular cytoplasm, and RUNX1 was expressed at a medium level in four types of tumors, including cervical cancer, colorectal cancer, glioma, and renal cancer. RUNX1 expression was positively correlated with infiltrating levels of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in 33 different cancers. Moreover, RUNX1 expression may influence patient prognosis by activating oncogenic signaling pathways in human cancers.CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that RUNX1 expression correlates with patient outcomes and immune infiltrate levels of CAFs in multiple tumors. Additionally, the increased level of RUNX1 was linked to the activation of oncogenic signaling pathways in human cancers, suggesting a potential role of RUNX1 among cancer therapeutic targets. These findings suggest that RUNX1 can function as a potential prognostic biomarker and reflect the levels of immune infiltrates of CAFs in human cancers.
Germline pathogenic variants in RUNX1 are associated with familial platelet disorder with predisposition to myeloid malignancies (FPD/MM) with intragenic deletions in RUNX1 accounting for almost 7% of all reported variants. We present two new pedigrees with FPD/MM carrying two different germline RUNX1 intragenic deletions. The aforementioned deletions encompass exons 1-2 and 9-10 respectively, with the exon 9-10 deletion being previously unreported. RNA sequencing of patients carrying the exon 9-10 deletion revealed a fusion with LINC00160 resulting in a change in the 3' sequence of RUNX1. Expression analysis of the transcript isoform demonstrated altered RUNX1a/b/c ratios in carriers from both families compared to controls. Our data provide evidence on the impact of intragenic RUNX1 deletions on transcript isoform expression and highlight the importance of routinely performing copy number variant analysis in patients with suspected MM with germline predisposition.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) are involved in numerous fundamental biological processes and play crucial parts in tumorigenesis and metastasis both directly and indirectly. However, the pan-cancer evidence of the RUNX gene family is not available.METHODS: In this study, we analyzed the potential association between RUNX gene family expression and patient's prognosis, immune cell infiltration, drug response, and genetic mutation data across different types of tumors using based on The Cancer Genome Atlas, Gene Expression Omnibus, and Oncomine database.RESULTS: The results showed that the expression of the RUNX gene family varied among different cancer types, revealing its heterogeneity in cancers and that expression of RUNX2 was lower than that of RUNX1 and RUNX3 across all cancer types. RUNX gene family gene expression was related to prognosis in several cancers. Furthermore, our study revealed a clear association between RUNX gene family expression and ESTIMATE score, RNA stemness, and DNA stemness scores. Compared with RUNX1 and RUNX2, RUNX3 showed relatively low levels of genetic alterations. RUNX gene family genes had clear associations with immune infiltrate subtypes, and their expression was positively related to immune checkpoint genes and drug sensitivity in most cases. Two immunotherapy cohorts confirm that the expression of RUNX was correlated with the clinical response of immunotherapy.CONCLUSIONS: These findings will help to elucidate the potential oncogenic roles of RUNX gene family genes in different types of cancer and it can function as a prognostic marker in various malignant tumors.
OBJECTIVE: Skeletal muscle is the major site of insulin action. There are limited data on the relationship between insulin action and skeletal muscle myogenic/regenerative potential. RUNX1 is a transcription factor which plays a role in muscle development and regeneration. The aim of our study was to assess the role of skeletal muscle myogenic/regenerative potential in the development of insulin resistance through the studies on RUNX1 transcription factor.DESIGN: This study is a cross-sectional study. Experimental part with myoblast cell line culture.METHODS: We examined 41 young healthy volunteers, 21 normal weight and 20 with overweight or obesity. Hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp and vastus lateralis muscle biopsy were performed. In L6 myoblast and human skeletal muscle myoblasts (hSkMM) cell cultures, RUNX1 was silenced at two stages of development. Cell growth, the expression of markers of myogenesis, nuclei fusion index, Akt phosphorylation and glucose uptake were measured.RESULTS: Skeletal muscle RUNX1 expression was decreased in overweight/obese individuals in comparison with normal-weight individuals and was positively related to insulin sensitivity, independently of BMI. Runx1 loss-of-function at the stage of myoblast inhibited myoblast proliferation and differentiation and reduced insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation and insulin-stimulated glucose uptake. In contrast, Runx1 knockdown in myotubes did not affect Akt phosphorylation, glucose uptake and other parameters studied.CONCLUSIONS: Myogenic/regenerative potential of adult skeletal muscle may be an important determinant of insulin action. Our data suggest that muscle RUNX1 may play a role in the modulation of insulin action through its effect on myogenesis.
Mammary gland homeostasis is maintained by adult tissue stem-progenitor cells residing within the luminal and basal epithelia. Dysregulation of mammary stem cells is a key mechanism for cancer development. However, stem cell characterization is challenging because reporter models using cell-specific promoters do not fully recapitulate the mammary stem cell populations. We previously found that a 270-basepair Runx1 enhancer element, named eR1, marked stem cells in the blood and stomach. Here, we identified eR1 activity in a rare subpopulation of the ERα-negative luminal epithelium in mouse mammary glands. Lineage-tracing using an eR1-CreERT2 mouse model revealed that eR1+ luminal cells generated the entire luminal lineage and milk-secreting alveoli-eR1 therefore specifically marks lineage-restricted luminal stem cells. eR1-targeted-conditional knockout of Runx1 led to the expansion of luminal epithelial cells, accompanied by elevated ERα expression. Our findings demonstrate a definitive role for Runx1 in the regulation of the eR1-positive luminal stem cell proliferation during mammary homeostasis. Our findings identify a mechanistic link for Runx1 in stem cell proliferation and its dysregulation in breast cancer. Runx1 inactivation is therefore likely to be an early hit in the cell-of-origin of ERα+ luminal type breast cancer.
Patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (LR-MDS) have a generally favorable prognosis; however, a small proportion of cases progress rapidly. This study aimed to define molecular biomarkers predictive of LR-MDS progression and to uncover cellular pathways contributing to malignant transformation. The mutational landscape was analyzed in 214 LR-MDS patients, and at least one mutation was detected in 137 patients (64%). Mutated RUNX1 was identified as the main molecular predictor of rapid progression by statistics and machine learning. To study the effect of mutated RUNX1 on pathway regulation, the expression profiles of CD34 + cells from LR-MDS patients with RUNX1 mutations were compared to those from patients without RUNX1 mutations. The data suggest that RUNX1-unmutated LR-MDS cells are protected by DNA damage response (DDR) mechanisms and cellular senescence as an antitumor cellular barrier, while RUNX1 mutations may be one of the triggers of malignant transformation. Dysregulated DDR and cellular senescence were also observed at the functional level by detecting γH2AX expression and β-galactosidase activity. Notably, the expression profiles of RUNX1-mutated LR-MDS resembled those of higher-risk MDS at diagnosis. This study demonstrates that incorporating molecular data improves LR-MDS risk stratification and that mutated RUNX1 is associated with a suppressed defense against LR-MDS progression.
EZH2 coding mutation (EZH2MUT), resulting in loss-of-function, is an independent predictor of overall survival in MDS. EZH2 function can be altered by other mechanisms including copy number changes, and mutations in other genes and non-coding regions of EZH2. Assessment of EZH2 protein can identify alterations of EZH2 function missed by mutation assessment alone. Precise evaluation of EZH2 function and gene-protein correlation in clinical MDS cohorts is important in the context of upcoming targeted therapies aimed to restore EZH2 function. In this study, we evaluated the clinicopathologic characteristics of newly diagnosed MDS patients with EZH2MUT and correlated the findings with protein expression using immunohistochemistry. There were 40 (~6%) EZH2MUT MDS [33 men, seven women; median age 74 years (range, 55-90)]. EZH2 mutations spanned the entire coding region. Majority had dominant EZH2 clone [median VAF, 30% (1-92)], frequently co-occurring with co-dominant TET2 (38%) and sub-clonal ASXL1 (55%) and RUNX1 (43%) mutations. EZH2MUT MDS showed frequent loss-of-expression compared to EZH2WT (69% vs. 27%, p = 0.001). Interestingly, NINE (23%) EZH2WT MDS also showed loss-of-expression. EZH2MUT and loss-of-expression significantly associated with male predominance and chr(7) loss. Further, only EZH2 loss-of-expression patients showed significantly lower platelet counts, a trend for higher BM blast% and R-IPSS scores. Over a 14-month median follow-up, both EZH2MUT (p = 0.027) and loss-of-expression (p = 0.0063) correlated with poor survival, independent of R-IPSS, age and gender. When analyzed together, loss-of-expression showed a stronger correlation than mutation (p = 0.061 vs. p = 0.43). In conclusion, immunohistochemical assessment of EZH2 protein, alongside mutation, is important for prognostic workup of MDS.
This study is aimed at exploring the potential mechanism of angiogenesis, a biological process-related gene in breast cancer (BRCA), and constructing a risk model related to the prognosis of BRCA patients. We used multiple bioinformatics databases and multiple bioinformatics analysis methods to complete our exploration in this research. First, we use the RNA-seq transcriptome data in the TCGA database to conduct a preliminary screening of angiogenesis-related genes through univariate Cox curve analysis and then use LASSO regression curve analysis for secondary screening. We successfully established a risk model consisting of seven angiogenesis-related genes in BRCA. The results of ROC curve analysis show that the risk model has good prediction accuracy. We can successfully divide BRCA patients into the high-risk and low-risk groups with significant prognostic differences based on this risk model. In addition, we used angiogenesis-related genes to perform cluster analysis in BRCA patients and successfully divided BRCA patients into three clusters with significant prognostic differences, namely, cluster 1, cluster 2, and cluster 3. Subsequently, we combined the clinical-pathological data for correlation analysis, and there is a significant correlation between the risk model and the patient's T and stage. Multivariate Cox regression curve analysis showed that the age of BRCA patients and the risk score of the risk model could be used as independent risk factors in the progression of BRCA. In particular, based on this angiogenesis-related risk model, we have drawn a matching nomogram that can predict the 5-, 7-, and 10-year overall survival rates of BRCA patients. Subsequently, we performed a series of pan-cancer analyses of CNV, SNV, OS, methylation, and immune infiltration for this risk model gene and used GDSC data to explore drug sensitivity. Subsequently, to gain insight into the protein expression of these risk model genes in BRCA, we used the immunohistochemical data in the THPA database for verification. The results showed that the protein expressions of IL18, RUNX1, SCG2, and THY1 molecules in BRCA tissues were significantly higher than those in normal breast tissues, while the protein expressions of PF4 and TNFSF12 molecules in BRCA tissues were significantly lower than those in normal breast tissues. Finally, we conducted multiple GSEA analyses to explore the biological pathways these risk model genes can cross in cancer progression. In summary, we believe that this study can provide valuable data and clues for future studies on angiogenesis in BRCA.
RUNX3 is a transcription factor dysregulated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, its role in normal myeloid development and leukemia is poorly understood. Here we investigate RUNX3 expression in both settings and the impact of its dysregulation on myelopoiesis. We found that RUNX3 mRNA expression was stable during hematopoiesis but decreased with granulocytic differentiation. In AML, RUNX3 mRNA was overexpressed in many disease subtypes, but downregulated in AML with core binding factor abnormalities, such as RUNX1::ETO. Overexpression of RUNX3 in human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) inhibited myeloid differentiation, particularly of the granulocytic lineage. Proliferation and myeloid colony formation were also inhibited. Conversely, RUNX3 knockdown did not impact the myeloid growth and development of human HSPC. Overexpression of RUNX3 in the context of RUNX1::ETO did not rescue the RUNX1::ETO-mediated block in differentiation. RNA-sequencing showed that RUNX3 overexpression downregulates key developmental genes, such as KIT and RUNX1, while upregulating lymphoid genes, such as KLRB1 and TBX21. Overall, these data show that increased RUNX3 expression observed in AML could contribute to the developmental arrest characteristic of this disease, possibly by driving a competing transcriptional program favoring a lymphoid fate.
OBJECTIVES: we aim to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis in population of adult MDS patients to elucidate the role of these genes in AML transformation risk.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The protocol for this systematic review and meta-analysis was registered in the international prospective register of systematic reviews (PROSPERO) with ID number of CRD42020218581. Systematic literature search was conducted by all authors up to October 2021 on: (1) PubMed, (2) EBSCOhost, (3) Scopus, (4) JSTOR, and (5) grey literatures. Hand-searching for relevant articles was also conducted. The following keywords with their synonyms and combinations using Boolean operators were applied to all database: "myelodysplastic syndrome", SRSF2", "SF3B1", "U2AF1", "ASXL1", "DNMT3A", "TET2", "IDH1", "IDH2", "RUNX1", "acute myeloid leukemia progression", and "leukemia free survival". Outcome was measured using hazard ratio (HR).RESULTS: We identified 14 articles to be used for this systematic review and meta-analysis. There was no statistically significant difference in AML transformation risk between U2AF1 mutant and U2AF1 wildtype MDS patients (HR: 1.41; 95% CI: 0.95-2.07, p=0.08, I2=0%). Pooled HR showed that patients with SRSF2 mutation had higher risk of AML transformation (HR 2.62; 95% CI: 1.54-4.45; p= .0004; I2= 55%). The pooled HR for SF3B1 was 0.48 (95% CI: 0.22-1.06, p=0.07, I2=55%). Mutations of TET2, ASXL1, and EZH2 were not associated with AML transformation. Meanwhile, DNMT3A mutations were associated with AML transformation with pooled HR of 2.73 (95% CI: 1.43-5.21; p= 0.08; I2: 67%). The pooled HR for IDH genes was smaller (HR: 2.92; 95%CI: 1.21-7.06; p=0.02; I2:65%). Patients with RUNX1 mutation were associated with AML transformation (HR: 1.85; 95%CI: 1.11-3.09; p=0.02; I2:38%).CONCLUSION: Based from our analyses, MDS patients with mutations of SRSF2, DNMT3A, IDH, and RUNX1 have higher hazard ratio for AML transformation.
OBJECTIVE: This study is aimed at screening the differential expression profiles of mRNA under weightlessness osteoporosis through high-throughput sequencing technology, as well as investigating the pathogenesis of weightlessness osteoporosis at the molecular level especially in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs).METHODS: The mouse bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell line was divided into ground group and simulated microgravity (SMG) group. BMP-2 was used to induce osteogenic differentiation, and SMG group was placed into 2D-gyroscope to simulate weightless condition. Transcriptome sequencing was performed by Illumina technology, DEGs between ground and SMG group was conducted using the DEseq2 algorithm. Molecular functions and signaling pathways enriched by DEGs were then comprehensively analyzed via multiple bioinformatic approaches including but not limited to GO, KEGG, GSEA, and PPI analysis.RESULTS: A total of 263 DEGs were identified by comparing these 2 groups, including 186 upregulated genes and 77 downregulated genes. GO analysis showed that DEGs were enriched in osteoblasts, osteoclasts cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis; KEGG analysis revealed that DEGs were significantly enriched in the TNF signaling pathway and FoxO signaling pathway; the enrichment results from Reactome database displayed that DEGs were mainly involved in the transcription of Hoxb3 gene, RUNX1 recruitment KMT2A gene, and activation of Hoxa2 chromatin signaling pathway. The four genes, IL6, CXCR4, IGF1, and PLOD2, were identified as hub genes for subsequent analysis.CONCLUSIONS: This study elucidated the significance of 10 hub genes in the development of weightlessness osteoporosis. In addition, the results of this study provide a theoretical basis and novel ideas for the subsequent research of the pathogenesis and clinical treatment of weightlessness osteoporosis.
Invasive lobular carcinoma with extracellular mucin (ILCEM) is a rare histologic subtype of breast cancer. Little is known about the pathologic or genomic signatures that distinguish ILCEM from classic invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or mucinous carcinoma. We studied 17 breast cancers with lobular morphology and extracellular mucin. Thirteen tumors with sufficient tissue for DNA extraction were analyzed by a next generation sequencing (NGS) assay that interrogates 447 genes for mutations and copy number variations (CNVs). Median patient age was 66 yrs (range: 31-77 yrs). Sixteen patients presented with masses, 7 of which were >2 cm. Seven patients had lymph node metastases. The cases of ILCEM were moderately (n = 13) or poorly differentiated (n = 4), frequently exhibiting variant morphology that has not been previously described or emphasized, including grade 3 nuclei (n = 11), diffuse signet ring cells (n = 10), solid growth (n = 4), tumor necrosis (n = 3) or apocrine features (n = 2). All tumors showed absent or reduced membranous E-cadherin expression. Concurrent lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) was seen in 11/17 cases, 1 of which was a striking example of signet ring cell LCIS with extracellular mucin. Receptor profiles were ER+/HER2- (n = 15) and ER+/HER2+ (n = 2). With a median follow-up of 83.5 months (range: 3-171 months) in 12 patients with available information, 8 patients had recurrences resulting in 4 cancer-related deaths. The most common CNVs were 16q loss (n = 11) and 1q gain (n = 9). CDH1 gene-level alterations were detected in all but one case, including frameshift (n = 7), nonsense (n = 2), and donor splice site (n = 1) mutations and indels (n = 2). Recurrent mutations were also seen in PIK3CA (n = 3), POLQ (n = 3), TP53 (n = 3), ERBB3 (n = 3), ERBB2 (n = 2), and RUNX1 (n = 2). Genes with recurrent amplifications included GATA3 (n = 4), FOXA1 (n = 3), CCND1 (n = 2). Our data highlights ILCEM as a distinct variant of ILC that often presents with higher-grade and variant morphologic features and is associated with an aggressive clinical course. NGS data support an overall lobular-type molecular profile and reveal potentially targetable alterations in a subset of cases with recurrence.
The translocation (3;21)(q26.2;q22.1) is a unique cytogenetic aberration that characterizes acute myeloid leukemia with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MRC) in patients with AML and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or a therapy-related myeloid neoplasm. Using multigene target sequencing and FISH, we investigated the clinical and genomic profiles of patients with t(3;21) over the past 10 years. The frequency of t(3;21) among myeloid malignancies was very low (0.2%). Half of the patients had a history of cancer treatment and the remaining patients had de novo MDS. Twenty-one somatic variants were detected in patients with t(3;21), including in CBL, GATA2, and SF3B1. Recurrent variants in RUNX1 (c.1184A>C, p.Glu395Ala) at the same site were detected in two patients. None of the patients with t(3;21) harbored germline predisposition mutations for myeloid neoplasms. MECOM rearrangement was detected at a higher rate using FISH than using G-banding, suggesting that FISH is preferable for monitoring. Although survival of patients with t(3;21) is reportedly poor, the survival of patients with t(3;21) in this study was not poor when compared with that of other AML patients in Korea.
Donor-cell derived myeloid neoplasm (DDMN), a rare complication after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), is of interest for its potential to reveal donor-derived and host-derived factors that contribute to the pathogenesis of leukemia. The accurate diagnosis of donor-derived leukemias has been facilitated by the more frequent use of molecular techniques. In this study, we describe three additional cases of DDMN; the first reported case of donor-derived chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), one acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(8;21)(q22;22); RUNX1-RUNX1T1 and one donor-derived MDS with deletion 5q. A review of the cytogenetic profiles of previously reported DDMN indicates a significant contribution of therapy-related myeloid neoplasms. Cases with direct evidence of donor- or recipient-dependent factors are rare; a role of direct transfer of leukemic cells, genomic instability of the donor, abnormal gene methylation in donor cells, proleukemic potential of abnormal stromal niche, and the role of immunological surveillance after transplantation has been observed. The role of additional potential pathogenetic factors that are without clinically observed evidence are also reviewed.
OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken with the aim of better understanding the genomic landscape of core-binding factor (CBF) acute myeloid leukemia (AML).MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed 112 genes that were detected using next-generation sequencing in 134 patients with de novo CBF-AML. FLT3-ITD, NPM1, and CEBPA mutations were detected by DNA-PCR and Sanger sequencing.RESULTS: In the whole cohort, the most commonly mutated genes were c-KIT (33.6%) and NRAS (33.6%), followed by FLT3 (18.7%), KRAS (13.4%), RELN (8.2%), and NOTCH1 (8.2%). The frequencies of mutated genes associated with epigenetic modification, such as IDH1, IDH2, DNMT3A, and TET2, were low, being present in 1.5%, 0.7%, 2.2%, and 7.5% of the total number of patients, respectively. Inv(16)/t(16;16) AML patients exhibited more mutations of NRAS and KRAS (p=0.001 and 0.0001, respectively) than t(8;21) AML patients. Functionally mutated genes involved in signaling pathways were observed more frequently in the inv(16)/t(16;16) AML group (p=0.016), while the mutations involved in cohesin were found more frequently in the t(8;21) AML group (p=0.011). Significantly higher white blood cell counts were found in inv(16)/t(16;16) AML patients with c-KIT (c-KITmut) or NRAS (NRASmut) mutations compared to the corresponding t(8;21) AML/c-KITmut and t(8;21) AML/NRASmut groups (p=0.001 and 0.009, respectively).CONCLUSION: The mutation profiles of t(8;21) AML patients showed evident differences from those of patients with inv(16)/t(16;16) AML. We have provided a comprehensive overview of the mutational landscape of CBF-AML.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease characterized by motor neuron degeneration that causes neuromuscular denervation, resulting in muscle weakness and atrophy. Work over the decades using ALS mouse models has revealed that while initial pathology may occur within motor neurons, disease pathology is cell non-autologous. Impairment of the blood-spinal cord barrier (BSCB) occurs before motor neuron frank degeneration; however, precisely when the early pathogenesis of the neurovascular units occurs is not fully understood. Here we examine changes in morphology of neurovascular units, associated gene and protein expression in the lumbar spinal cord of SOD1G93A, and wild-type mice and correlate results with previous reports of early pathological events. Using RNA-sequencing and immunolabeling, we also show that both the neurovascular units and the vasculature of the SOD1G93A lumbar spinal cord present important modifications throughout the disease. Genes relevant for the neurovascular unit and immune cells were differentially expressed in the SOD1G93A ventral lumbar spinal cord compared to wild-type. A reduction in capillary density and tight junction (TJ) with overt BSCB breakdown was observed in the SOD1G93A lumbar spinal cord and ultrastructural observation revealed intact TJ. Additionally, thickened basement membrane, increased pericytes, and string vessels were observed. These alterations in neurovascular units and the vasculature are observed prior to reports of initial neuromuscular junction denervation. The identification of early pathogenesis may be critical to develop diagnostic tests and development of novel treatment strategies that target these early events.
MiR-199a-3p was reported decreased in serum of coronary heart disease patients and human atherosclerotic plaques. This study aims to investigate the roles of miR-199a-3p in atherosclerosis (AS). AS was induced in ApoE-/- mice via high fat diet for 12 weeks. Oxidized low density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) was used to induce foaming in RAW264.7 cells. The expression level of miR-199a-3p was decreased in aortas of AS mice and ox-LDL-treated macrophages. Oil red O staining, ELISA, flow cytometry, and western blot results demonstrated that miR-199a-3p mimics restrained ox-LDL-induced lipid accumulation, foaming, and inflammation in RAW264.7 cells, while miR-199a-3p inhibitor played opposite roles. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), a pro-inflammatory factor, was identified as a target of miR-199a-3p, and its expression was downregulated by miR-199a-3p. RUNX1 was increased in macrophages from aortas and peripheral blood of AS mice. Ox-LDL-induced inflammation and lipid accumulation were aggravated by RUNX1, and the effects of miR-199a-3p were antagonized by ectopic expression of RUNX1 in RAW264.7 cells. The phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) was inhibited by miR-199a-3p and enhanced by RUNX1. In conclusions, we demonstrated that miR-199a-3p alleviated ox-LDL-induced foaming and inflammation by downregulating RUNX1 expression and deactivating STAT3 signaling in macrophages. These findings may provide novel targets for treatment of AS.
Mast cell neoplasms are an emerging challenge in the fields of internal medicine, allergy, immunology, dermatology, laboratory medicine, and pathology. In this review, we discuss the current standards for the diagnosis and prognostication of mast cell neoplasms with special reference to clinically relevant germline and somatic gene variants. In patients with cutaneous mastocytosis or with indolent systemic mastocytosis (SM), various KIT-activating mutations act as key molecular drivers of the disease. In adults, KIT p.D816V is by far the most prevalent driver, whereas other KIT mutants are detected in nearly 40% of children. In advanced SM, including aggressive SM, SM with an associated hematological neoplasm, and mast cell leukemia, additional somatic mutations in other genes, such as SRSF2, JAK2, RUNX1, ASXL1, or RAS, may be detected. These drivers are more frequently detected in SM with an associated hematological neoplasm, particularly in male patients. Recently, hereditary alpha-tryptasemia has been identified as a genetic trait more prevalent in SM compared with healthy controls. Moreover, hereditary alpha-tryptasemia is more frequent in patients with SM with Hymenoptera venom allergy and severe mediator-related symptoms than in patients with SM without symptoms. On the basis of this knowledge, we propose a diagnostic algorithm in which genetic markers are applied together with clinical and histopathologic criteria to establish the diagnosis and prognosis in SM.
Acute myeloid leukemia with normal cytogenetics (CN-AML) is the largest group of AML patients which is associated with a variegated patient outcome. Multiple molecular markers have been used to risk-stratify these patients. Estimation of expression of BAALC gene (Brain and Acute Leukemia, Cytoplasmic) mRNA level is one of the predictive markers which has been identified in multiple studies. In this study, we examined the clinical and prognostic value of BAALC gene expression in 149 adult CN-AML patients. We also utilized multi-omics databases to ascertain the association of BAALC gene expression with comprehensive molecular and clinicopathologic features in AML. BAALC overexpression was associated with CD34 positivity on leukemic blasts (p = 0.0026) and the absence of NPM1 gene mutation (p < 0.0001), presence of RUNX1 gene mutation (p < 0.001) and poor patient outcomes, particularly in NPM1-wild type/FLT3-ITD negative adult CN-AML patients. Additionally, BAALC expression was associated with the alteration of methylation of its promoter. Further, pathway analysis revealed that BAALC expression is correlated with MYC targets and Ras signalling. We conclude that high BAALC expression associates with poor patient outcome in NPM1-wild type/FLT3-ITD negative adult CN-AML patients.
Bone marrow specimens are the core of the diagnostic workup of patients with cytopenia. To explore whether next-generation sequencing (NGS) could be used to rule out malignancy without bone marrow specimens, we incorporated NGS in a model to predict presence of disease in the bone marrow of patients with unexplained cytopenia. We analyzed the occurrence of mutations in 508 patients with cytopenia, referred for primary workup of a suspected hematologic malignancy from 2015 to 2020. We divided patients into a discovery (n = 340) and validation (n = 168) cohort. Targeted sequencing, bone marrow biopsy, and complete blood count were performed in all patients. Mutations were identified in 267 (53%) and abnormal bone marrow morphology in 188 (37%) patients. Patients with isolated neutropenia had the lowest frequency of both mutations (21%) and abnormal bone marrow morphology (5%). The median number of mutations per patient was 2 in patients with abnormal bone marrow morphology compared with 0 in patients with a nondiagnostic bone marrow morphology (P < .001). In a multivariable logistic regression, mutations in TET2, SF3B1, U2AF1, TP53, and RUNX1 were significantly associated with abnormal bone marrow morphology. In the validation cohort, a model combining mutational status and clinical data identified 34 patients (20%) without abnormal bone marrow morphology with a sensitivity of 100% (95% confidence interval: 93%-100%). Overall, we show that NGS combined with clinical data can predict the presence of abnormal bone marrow morphology in patients with unexplained cytopenia and thus can be used to assess the need of a bone marrow biopsy.
OBJECTIVE: Even though childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has an encouraging survival rate in recent years, some patients are still at risk of relapse or even death. Therefore, we aimed to construct a nomogram to predict event-free survival (EFS) in patients with ALL.METHOD: Children with newly diagnosed ALL between October 2016 and July 2021 from 18 hospitals participating in the South China children's leukemia Group (SCCLG) were recruited and randomly classified into two subsets in a 7:3 ratio (training set, n=1187; validation set, n=506). Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and multivariate Cox regression analysis were adopted to screen independent prognostic factors. Then, a nomogram can be build based on these prognostic factors to predict 1-, 2-, and 3-year EFS. Concordance index (C-index), area under the curve (AUC), calibration curve, and decision curve analysis (DCA) were used to evaluate the performance and clinical utility of nomogram.RESULT: The parameters that predicted EFS were age at diagnosis, white blood cell at diagnosis, immunophenotype, ETV6-RUNX1/TEL-AML1 gene fusion, bone marrow remission at day 15, and minimal residual disease at day 15. The nomogram incorporated the six factors and provided C-index values of 0.811 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.792-0.830] and 0.797 (95% CI = 0.769-0.825) in the training and validation set, respectively. The calibration curve and AUC revealed that the nomogram had good ability to predict 1-, 2-, and 3-year EFS. DCA also indicated that our nomogram had good clinical utility. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that EFS in the different risk groups stratified by the nomogram scores was significant differentiated.CONCLUSION: The nomogram for predicting EFS of children with ALL has good performance and clinical utility. The model could help clinical decision-making.
Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), the most common pediatric cancer, is a heterogeneous disease comprised of multiple molecular subtypes with distinct somatic genetic alterations, which results in different outcomes for the patients. Accurate patient risk stratification through genetic markers could increase survival rates, but the identification of reliable biomarkers is needed, as 20‑30% of B‑ALL patients cannot be classified in the clinic with routine techniques and some patients classified as low‑risk and good‑responders to treatment will eventually relapse. Long non‑coding RNAs (lncRNAs) can represent novel candidates with diagnostic, classification, prognosis, and treatment response potential. However, regarding childhood ALL, there is inconsistency in the data reported due to the lack of a consensus nomenclature for lncRNA naming and the methodology and designing applied for their study. Therefore, the aim of the article is to clarify the potential of lncRNAs as biomarkers in childhood ALL through a systematic review. From a revision of 23 manuscripts, it was found that AWPPH overexpression could represent a novel marker for ALL diagnosis, including both B and T immunophenotypes, and 18 lncRNAs were specifically associated with B‑cell ALL (B‑ALL) patients. We identified subtype‑specific signatures for ETV6‑RUNX1, hyperdiploidy and KMT2A subtypes. These signatures hold promise as novel diagnostic markers and could refine the classification of patients.
Tissue-inappropriate expression of FOXC1 (Forkhead Box C1) in acute myeloid leukemia confers a monocyte/macrophage lineage differentiation block. We discovered that FOXC1 interacts with RUNX1 (Runt-Related Transcription Factor 1) to stabilize a RUNX1, HDAC1 (Histone Deacetylase 1) and TLE3 (Transducin-like enhancer protein 3) repressor complex at enhancers controlling myeloid differentiation genes.
The ontogeny of human haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) is poorly defined owing to the inability to identify HSCs as they emerge and mature at different haematopoietic sites1. Here we created a single-cell transcriptome map of human haematopoietic tissues from the first trimester to birth and found that the HSC signature RUNX1+HOXA9+MLLT3+MECOM+HLF+SPINK2+ distinguishes HSCs from progenitors throughout gestation. In addition to the aorta-gonad-mesonephros region, nascent HSCs populated the placenta and yolk sac before colonizing the liver at 6 weeks. A comparison of HSCs at different maturation stages revealed the establishment of HSC transcription factor machinery after the emergence of HSCs, whereas their surface phenotype evolved throughout development. The HSC transition to the liver marked a molecular shift evidenced by suppression of surface antigens reflecting nascent HSC identity, and acquisition of the HSC maturity markers CD133 (encoded by PROM1) and HLA-DR. HSC origin was tracked to ALDH1A1+KCNK17+ haemogenic endothelial cells, which arose from an IL33+ALDH1A1+ arterial endothelial subset termed pre-haemogenic endothelial cells. Using spatial transcriptomics and immunofluorescence, we visualized this process in ventrally located intra-aortic haematopoietic clusters. The in vivo map of human HSC ontogeny validated the generation of aorta-gonad-mesonephros-like definitive haematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from human pluripotent stem cells, and serves as a guide to improve their maturation to functional HSCs.
Leukemias are a group of malignancies of the blood and bone marrow. Multiple types of leukemia are known, however reliable treatments have not been developed for most leukemia types. Furthermore, even relatively reliable treatments can result in relapses. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short, noncoding RNAs responsible for epigenetic regulation of gene expression and have been proposed as a source of potential novel therapeutic targets for leukemias. In order to identify central miRNAs for leukemia, we conducted data synthesis using two databases: miRTarBase and DISNOR. A total of 137 unique miRNAs associated with 16 types of leukemia were retrieved from miRTarBase and 86 protein-coding genes associated with leukemia were retrieved from the DISNOR database. Based on these data, we formed a visual network of 248 miRNA-target interactions (MTI) between leukemia-associated genes and miRNAs associated with ≥4 leukemia types. We then manually reviewed the literature describing these 248 MTIs for interactions identified in leukemia studies. This manually curated data was then used to visualize a network of 64 MTIs identified in leukemia patients, cell lines and animal models. We also formed a visual network of miRNA-leukemia associations. Finally, we compiled leukemia clinical trials from the ClinicalTrials database. miRNAs with the highest number of MTIs were miR-125b-5p, miR-155-5p, miR-181a-5p and miR-19a-3p, while target genes with the highest number of MTIs were TP53, BCL2, KIT, ATM, RUNX1 and ABL1. The analysis of 248 MTIs revealed a large, highly interconnected network. Additionally, a large MTI subnetwork was present in the network visualized from manually reviewed data. The interconnectedness of the MTI subnetwork suggests that certain miRNAs represent central disease molecules for multiple leukemia types. Additional studies on miRNAs, their target genes and associated biological pathways are required to elucidate the therapeutic potential of miRNAs in leukemia.
Author information:(1)Medical Research Council Cancer Unit, Hutchison/Medical Research Council Research Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.(2)Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.(3)Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, College of Medical & Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.(4)University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, B15 2GW, UK.(5)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute EMBL-EBI, Hinxton, UK.(6)Department of Surgery, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.(7)Department of Medical Oncology, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.(8)Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.(9)Irving Institute for Cancer Dynamics, Columbia University, New York, USA.(10)Department of Statistics, Columbia University, New York, USA.(11)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, USA.(12)Medical Research Council Cancer Unit, Hutchison/Medical Research Council Research Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. rcf29@cam.ac.uk.(#)Contributed equally
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a group of clonal hematological disease with high risk of progression to AML. Accurate risk stratification is of importance for the proper management of MDS. Genetic lesions (Cytogenetic and Molecular mutations) are known to help in prognosticating the MDS patients. We have studied 152 MDS patients using cytogenetics and next generation sequencing (NGS). These patients were evaluated and as per cytogenetic prognostic group, majority (92.1%) of the patients classified as good (81.6%) and intermediate (10.5%) group. The NGS identified 38 different gene mutations in our cohort. Among 111 MDS patients with mutations, the most frequent mutated genes were SF3B1 (25.2%), SRSF2 (19%) U2AF1 (14.4%) ASXL1 (9.9%) RUNX1 (9.9%) TET2 (9%), TP53 (9%), ATM (6.3%), NRAS (5.4%) and JAK2/3 (5.4%). The survival analysis revealed that the mutations in TP53, JAK2/3, KRAS, NRAS and ASXL1 were significantly (P < 0.05) associated with poor survival of the patients. The univariate cox and multivariate cox analysis of our study suggested that the age, marrow morphology, cytogenetic and gene mutations with IPSS-R should be considered for prognosticating the MDS patients. We have proposed M-IPSS-R which changed the risk stratification i.e. 66.3% patients had decreased risk whereas 33.75% showed increased risk compared to IPSS-R. The survival analysis also showed that the M-IPSS-R were more significant in separating the patients as per their risk than the IPSS-R alone. The change in risk stratification could help in proper strategy for the treatment planning.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214000, Jiangsu Province, China,Nantong University of Medicine, Nantong 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214000, Jiangsu Province, China,E-mail:huahy007@163.com.(3)Department of Hematology, Changzhou Second Hospital, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu Province, China.(4)Department of Hematology, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University, Wuxi 214000, Jiangsu Province, China.
During development, the somites play a key role in the specification of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). In zebrafish, the somitic Notch ligands Delta-c (Dlc) and Dld, both of which are regulated by Wnt16, directly instruct HSC fate in a shared vascular precursor. However, it remains unclear how this signaling cascade is spatially and temporally regulated within somites. Here, we show in zebrafish that an additional somitic Notch ligand, Jagged 2b (Jag2b), induces intercellular signaling to drive wnt16 expression. Jag2b activated Notch signaling in segmented somites at the early stage of somitogenesis. Loss of jag2b led to a reduction in the expression of wnt16 in the somites and an HSC marker, runx1, in the dorsal aorta, whereas overexpression of jag2b increased both. However, Notch-activated cells were adjacent to, but did not overlap with, wnt16-expressing cells within the somites, suggesting that an additional signaling molecule mediates this intercellular signal transduction. We uncover that Jag2b-driven Notch signaling induces efna1b expression, which regulates wnt16 expression in neighboring somitic cells. Collectively, we provide evidence for previously unidentified spatiotemporal regulatory mechanisms of HSC specification by somites.
Author information:(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Disease, Beijing Key Laboratory of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, Beijing 100044, China.
Therapy-related myeloid neoplasm (t-MN) is a threatening complication of autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Detecting clonal hematopoiesis (CH) mutations in cryopreserved cells before ASCT has been associated with a higher risk of t-MN, but the evolution of molecular abnormalities from pre-ASCT to t-MN, within the same patient, remains to be elucidated. We evaluated the mutational profile of 19 lymphoma/myeloma patients, at both pre-ASCT and t-MN diagnosis, using a targeted NGS approach; 26 non-developing t-MN control patients were also studied pre-ASCT. At ASCT, we found a higher frequency of CH in patients developing t-MN (58%) than in those who did not (23%) (P = 0.029); mutations in epigenetic (DNMT3A, TET2, and ASXL1) and DNA repair genes (PPM1D, RAD21, TP53, and STAG2) were the most represented. At t-MN, CH increased to 82% of patients. Cumulative mutational burden and variant allele frequency (VAF) also increased at t-MN. CH clones detected at ASCT were found at t-MN in eight out of 16 patients, mainly with stable VAF. Among the new driver mutations appeared at t-MN, TP53 increased from one to 13 mutations, in nine patients; being associated with complex karyotype. Mutations in transcription factor (RUNX1, CEBPA) and intracellular signaling genes (FLT3, RAS genes) also increased from three to 17 mutations in eight patients, presenting with a normal karyotype. Overall, we found that preexisting CH at ASCT rarely causes t-MN directly, but may rather facilitate the appearance of new mutations, especially those involving TP53, RUNX1, and RAS, that can drive the evolution to t-MN of at least two distinct types.
There are currently no known predictors of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)/myeloproliferative overlap neoplasm (MPN) patients' response to hypomethylating agents (HMA). Forty-three patients with MDS/MPN who were treated with HMA during chronic phase and had next-generation sequencing using the established 63-genes panel were identified. Complete and partial remission and marrow response were assessed based on the MDS/MPN International Working Group response criteria. On univariate analysis, younger age, higher number of mutations, and mutations in SETBP1, RUNX1, or EZH2 were associated with no response. Multivariable analysis for modeling response were conducted via least absolute shrinkage and selection operator logistic regression approach, and showed that mutations in SETBP1, RUNX1, or EZH2 predict lack of HMA response. While limited by sample size, our findings suggest that genomic landscape can potentially identify MDS/MPN patients with lower likelihood of response to HMA.
BACKGROUND: As one of the most important brain tumors, glioblastoma (GBM) has a poor prognosis, especially in adults. Immune-related genes (IRGs) and immune cell infiltration are responsible for the pathogenesis of GBM. This study aimed to identify new tumor markers to predict the prognosis of patients with GBM.METHODS: The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database and ImmPort database were used for model construction. The Wilcoxon rank-sum test was applied to identify the differentially expressed IRGs (DEIRGs) between the GBM and normal samples. Univariate Cox regression analysis and Kaplan-Meier analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between each DEIRG and overall survival. Next, multivariate Cox regression analysis was exploited to further explore the prognostic potential of DEIRGs. A risk-score model was constructed based on the above results. The area under the curve (AUC) values were calculated to assess the effect of the model prediction. Furthermore, the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas (CGGA) dataset was used for model validation. STRING database and functional enrichment analysis were used for exploring the gene interactions and the underlying functions and pathways. The CIBERSORT algorithm was used for correlation analysis of the marker genes and the tumor-infiltrating immune cells.RESULTS: There were 198 DEIRGs in GBM, including 153 upregulated genes and 45 downregulated genes. Seven marker genes (LYNX1, PRELID1P4, MMP9, TCF12, RGS14, RUNX1, and CCR2) were filtered out by sequential screening for DEIRGs. The regression coefficients (0.0410, 1.335, 0.005, -0.021, 0.123, 0.142, and -0.329) and expression data of the marker genes were used to construct the model. The AUC values for 1, 2, and 3 years were 0.744, 0.737, and 0.749 in the TCGA-GBM cohort and 0.612, 0.602, and 0.594 in the CGGA-GBM cohort, respectively, which indicated a high predictive power. The results of enrichment analysis revealed that these genes were enriched in the activation of T cell and cytokine receptor interaction pathways. The interaction network map demonstrated a close relationship between the marker genes MMP9 and CCR2. Infiltration analysis of the immune cells showed that dendritic cells (DCs) could identify GBM, while LYNX1, RUNX1, and CCR2 were significantly positively correlated with DCs expression.CONCLUSION: This study analyzed the expression of IRGs in GBM and identified seven marker genes for the construction of an immune-related risk score model. These marker genes were found to be associated with DCs and were enriched in similar immune response pathways. These findings are likely to provide new insights for the immunotherapy of patients with GBM.
Down syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder frequently characterized by other developmental defects, such as congenital heart disease. Analysis of gene expression profiles of hearts from trisomic fetuses have shown upregulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) genes. The aim of this work was to identify genes on chromosome 21 potentially responsible for the upregulation of ECM genes and to pinpoint any functional consequences of this upregulation. By gene set enrichment analysis of public data sets, we identified the transcription factor RUNX1, which maps to chromosome 21, as a possible candidate for regulation of ECM genes. We assessed that approximately 80% of ECM genes overexpressed in trisomic hearts have consensus sequences for RUNX1 in their promoters. We found that in human fetal fibroblasts with chromosome 21 trisomy there is increased expression of both RUNX1 and several ECM genes, whether located on chromosome 21 or not. SiRNA silencing of RUNX1 reduced the expression of 11 of the 14 ECM genes analyzed. In addition, collagen IV, an ECM protein secreted in high concentrations in the culture media of trisomic fibroblasts, was modulated by RUNX1 silencing. Attenuated expression of RUNX1 increased the migratory capacity of trisomic fibroblasts, which are characterized by a reduced migratory capacity compared to euploid controls.
BACKGROUND: The immune response in the bone marrow microenvironment has implications for progression and prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, few immune-related biomarkers for AML prognosis and immunotherapy response have been identified. We aimed to establish a predictive gene signature and to explore the determinants of prognosis in AML.METHODS: Immune-related genes with clinical significance were screened by a weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Seven immune-related genes were used to establish a gene signature by a multivariate Cox regression analysis. Based on the signature, low- and high-risk groups were compared with respect to the immune microenvironment, immune checkpoints, pathway activities, and mutation frequencies. The tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion (TIDE) method was used to predict the response to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy. The Connectivity Map database was used to explore small-molecule drugs expected to treat high-risk populations.RESULTS: A seven-gene prognostic signature was used to classify patients into high- and low-risk groups. Prognosis was poorer for patients in the former than in the latter. The high-risk group displayed higher levels of immune checkpoint molecules (LAG3, PD-1, CTLA4, PD-L2, and PD-L1), immune cell infiltration (dendritic cells, T helper 1, and gamma delta T), and somatic mutations (NPM1 and RUNX1). Moreover, hematopoietic stem cell/leukemia stem cell pathways were enriched in the high-risk phenotype. Compared with that in the low-risk group, the lower TIDE score for the high-risk group implied that this group is more likely to benefit from ICB therapy. Finally, some drugs (FLT3 inhibitors and BCL inhibitors) targeting the expression profiles associated with the high-risk group were generated using Connectivity Map.CONCLUSION: The newly developed immune-related gene signature is an effective biomarker for predicting prognosis in AML and provides a basis, from an immunological perspective, for the development of comprehensive therapeutic strategies.
RUNX1 is a critical transcription factor for the emergence of definitive hematopoiesis and the precise regulation of adult hematopoiesis. Dysregulation of its regulatory network causes aberrant hematopoiesis. Recurrent genetic alterations in RUNX1, including chromosomal translocations and mutations, have been identified in both inherited and sporadic diseases. Recent genomic studies have revealed a vast mutational landscape surrounding genetic alterations in RUNX1. Accumulating pieces of evidence also indicate the leukemogenic role of wild-type RUNX1 in certain situations. Based on these efforts, part of the molecular mechanisms of disease development as a consequence of dysregulated RUNX1-regulatory networks have become increasingly evident. This review highlights the recent advances in the field of RUNX1 research and discusses the critical roles of RUNX1 in hematopoiesis and the pathobiological function of its alterations in the context of disease, particularly myeloid neoplasms, and clonal hematopoiesis.
Epigenetic modification is an important process during hematopoietic cell differentiation. Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors have previously been shown to enhance expansion of umbilical cord blood-derived hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). However, the effect of HDAC inhibitors on pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) in this context is less understood. For years, investigators have considered PSC-derived natural killer (NK) and T-cell therapies. These "off-the-shelf" cellular therapies are now entering the clinic. However, the in vitro commitment of PSCs to the hematopoietic lineage is inefficient and represents a major bottleneck. We investigated whether HDAC inhibitors (HDACi) influence human PSC differentiation into CD34+CD45+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), focusing on hemogenic endothelium (HE). Pluripotent stem cells cultured in the presence of HDACi showed a 2-5 times increase in HSPCs. Concurrent with this, HDACi-treated PSCs increased expression of 7 transcription factors (HOXA5, HOXA9, HOXA10, RUNX1, ERG, SPI1, and LCOR) recently shown to convert HE to HSPCs. ChIP-qPCR showed that SAHA upregulated acetylated-H3 at the promoter region of the above key genes. SAHA-treated human PSC-derived CD34+CD45+ cells showed primary engraftment in immunodeficient mice, but not serial transplantation. We further demonstrate that SAHA-derived HSPCs could differentiate into functional NK cells in vitro. The addition of SAHA is an easy and effective approach to overcoming the bottleneck in the transition from PSC to HSPCs for "off-the-shelf" cellular immunotherapy.
The transcription factor RUNX1 is essential for correct hematopoietic development; in its absence in the germ line, blood stem cells are not formed. RUNX1 orchestrates dramatic changes in the chromatin landscape at the onset of stem cell formation, which set the stage for both stem self-renewal and further differentiation. However, once blood stem cells are formed, the mutation of the RUNX1 gene is not lethal but can lead to various hematopoietic defects and a predisposition to cancer. Here we summarize the current literature on inherited and acquired RUNX1 mutations, with a particular emphasis on mutations that alter the structure of the RUNX1 protein itself, and place these changes in the context of what is known about RUNX1 function. We also summarize which mutant RUNX1 proteins are actually expressed in cells and discuss the molecular mechanism underlying how such variants reprogram the epigenome setting stem cells on the path to malignancy.
BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer is highly prevalent and causes high global mortality, and glucagon axis has been implicated in colon cancer. The present study is aimed at investigating the regulating mechanisms of glucagon involvement in colorectal cancer.METHODS: Publicly available data from the TCGA database was utilized to explore the expression pattern and regulating role of glucagon (GCG) in colorectal cancer (COADREAD) including colon adenocarcinomas (COAD) and rectum adenocarcinomas (READ). Statistical analyses were performed using the R software packages and public web servers. The expression pattern and prognostic significance of GCG gene in pan-cancer and TCGA-COADREAD data were investigated by performing unpaired and paired sample analyses. The association of GCG expression with clinical characteristics was investigated using logistic regression analysis. Univariate cox regression analysis was performed to test the prognostic value of GCG expression for overall survival in COADREAD patients. GCG-significantly correlated genes were obtained. Biological functions and signaling pathways were identified by performing functional enrichment analysis and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA). Additionally, the potential involvement of GCG in tumor immunity was researched by investigating the correlation between GCG expression and 24 tumor infiltrating immune cells.RESULTS: GCG was found to be significantly downregulated in COADREAD tumor samples compared with healthy control samples. GCG gene was shown to be associated with the prognostic outcomes of COADREAD, whereby its upregulation predicted improved survival outcomes. Functional enrichment analysis showed that the top 100 positively and top 100 negatively GCG-correlated genes were mainly enriched in three signaling pathways including ribosome, nitrogen metabolism, and proximal tubule bicarbonate reclamation. The GSEA showed that GCG-significantly correlated genes were mainly enriched in cell cycle-related pathways (reactome cell cycle, reactome cell cycle mitotic, reactome cell cycle checkpoints, reactome M phase, Reactome G2 M DNA damage checkpoint, and Reactome G2 M checkpoints), neuropeptide ligand receptor interaction, RHO GTPases signaling, WNT signaling, RUNX1 signaling, NOTCH signaling, ESR signaling, HCMV infection, and oxidative stress-related signaling. GCG was positively correlated with Th17 cells, pDC, macrophages, TFH cells, iDC, Tem, B cells, dendritic cells, neutrophils, mast cells, and eosinophils and was negatively associated with NK cells.CONCLUSIONS: GCG dysregulation with high prognostic value in COADREAD was noted. Several tumor progression-related pathways and tumor immune-modulatory cells were linked to GCG expression in COADREAD. Therefore, GCG may be regarded as a potential therapeutic target for treating colorectal cancer.
In November 2018, the Camp Fire devastated the mountain community of Paradise, CA. The burning of plastic pipes, wiring, construction materials, paint, and car batteries released toxic chemicals into the environment, contaminating the air, soil, and local waterways. Examples of toxins that were identified in the creeks and waterways in and around Paradise included pentachlorophenol (PCP), chrysene, and polyaromatic hydrocarbons. The effects of some of these chemicals on embryonic development, hematopoiesis (blood formation), and the immune system have not been thoroughly studied. Defining safe levels and the long-term effects of exposure is imperative to understanding and mitigating potential negative future outcomes. To perform these studies, we utilized zebrafish (Danio rerio), a commonly used vertebrate model system to study development. We observed the adverse effects of PCP on the development of zebrafish by using fluorescence microscopy, and saw that increased concentrations of PCP decreased the numbers of normal red blood cells and myeloid cells. Additionally, we observed that animal survival decreased in response to increasing concentrations of PCP. Furthermore, the prevalence of characteristic physical deformities such as tail curvature were greater in the treatment groups. Lastly, runx1, cmyb, and cd41 expression was reduced in fish treated with PCP. These results suggest that PCP has a previously underappreciated effect on blood and immune cell development and future studies should be performed to determine the molecular mechanisms involved.
(1) Background: Inexplicable low back and neck pain frequently results from spinal disc degeneration with an imbalanced intervertebral disc (IVD) cell homeostasis. We hypothesize that introducing MSC expressing a sustained cartilage-anabolic factor in the IVD may stimulate the mucoid materials secreted from the IVD cells, promote the MSC's chondrogenesis and maintain the hydration content providing mechanical strength to decelerate the disc degeneration progression; (2) Methods: This study expressed a cartilage-anabolic factor runx1 by a baculoviral vector (BV) transduced MSCs through a Cre/LoxP gene editing and recombination system for sustained recombinant runx1 transcription factor production. The Cre/LoxP BV modified MSCs were encapsulated by hyaluronan hydrogel, due to its' vital composition in ECM of a healthy disc and transplanted to a punctured coccygeal disc in rats through micro-injection, followed by X-ray radiography and histological analysis at the 4- and 12-weeks post-transplantation; (3) Results: Data reveals the Cre/LoxP BV system-mediated long-termed runx1 gene expression, possessing good biosafety characteristics in the in vitro cell transduction and in vivo MSCs transplantation, and maintained superior hydration content in the disc than that of mock transduced MSCs; (4) Conclusions: This proof-of-concept study fulfills the need of implanting therapeutic cells accompanied with microinjection in the disc, such as a discography and paves a road to manufacture composite hyaluronan, such as peptide modified hyaluronan as an MSC carrier for IVD regeneration in the future study.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) represents a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of certain subtypes of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). CDK4/6 kinase inhibitors have been widely studied in many cancer types and their effects may be limited by primary and secondary resistance mechanisms. CDK4/6 degraders, which eliminate kinase-dependent and kinase-independent effects, have been suggested as an alternative therapeutic option. We show that the efficacy of the CDK6-specific protein degrader BSJ-03-123 varies among AML subtypes and depends on the low expression of the INK4 proteins p16INK4A and p18INK4C. INK4 protein levels are significantly elevated in KMT2A-MLLT3+ cells compared to RUNX1-RUNX1T1+ cells, contributing to the different CDK6 degradation efficacy. We demonstrate that CDK6 complexes containing p16INK4A or p18INK4C are protected from BSJ-mediated degradation and that INK4 levels define the proliferative response to CDK6 degradation. These findings define INK4 proteins as predictive markers for CDK6 degradation-targeted therapies in AML.
Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) are a complication of treatment with cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. The majority of t-MNs show chromosomal abnormalities associated with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or KMT2A rearrangements and are characterized by poor clinical outcomes. A small but substantial subset of patients have normal karyotype (NK) and their clinical characteristics and mutational profiles are not well studied. We retrospectively studied patients diagnosed with t-MN at three institutions and compared the mutational profile and survival data between t-MNs with NK and t-MNs with abnormal karyotype (AK). A total of 204 patients with t-MN were identified including 158 with AK and 46 with NK. NK t-MNs, compared to AK, were enriched for mutations in TET2 (p < 0.0001), NPM1 (p < 0.0001), ASXL1 (p = 0.0003), SRSF2 (p < 0.0001), RUNX1 (p = 0.0336) and STAG2 (p = 0.0099) and showed a significantly lower frequency of TP53 mutations (p < 0.0001). Overall survival (OS) was significantly lower in AK t-MNs as compared to NK cases (p = 0.0094). In our study, NK t-MNs showed a significantly better OS, a higher prevalence of MN-associated mutations and a lower frequency of TP53 mutations compared to their AK counterparts. The distinct clinical and mutational profile of NK t-MNs merits a separate classification.
The aim of this study was to explore the overlapping key genes, pathway networks and transcription factors (TFs) related to the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and atherosclerosis. The gene expression profiles of RA and atherosclerosis were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between RA and atherosclerosis were identified. The biological roles of common DEGs were explored through enrichment analysis. Hub genes were identified using protein-protein interaction networks. TFs were predicted using Transcriptional Regulatory Relationships Unraveled by Sentence Based Text Mining (TRRUST) database. The hub genes and TFs were validated with other datasets. The networks between TFs and hub genes were constructed by CytoScape software. A total of 131 DEGs (all upregulated) were identified. Functional enrichment analyses indicated that DEGs were mostly enriched in leukocyte migration, neutrophil activation, and phagocytosis. CytoScape demonstrated 12 hub genes and one gene cluster module. Four of the 12 hub genes (CSF1R, CD86, PTPRC, and CD53) were validated by other datasets. TRRUST predicted two TFs, including Spi-1 proto-oncogene (SPI1) and RUNX family transcription factor 1(RUNX1). The expression of RUNX1 was validated with another dataset. Our study explored the common pathogenesis of RA and atherosclerosis. These results may guide future experimental research and clinical transformation.
Mutations characterize diverse human cancers; there is a positive correlation between elevated mutation frequency and tumor progression. One exception is acute myeloid leukemia (AML), which has few clonal single nucleotide mutations. We used highly sensitive and accurate Duplex Sequencing (DS) to show now that AML, in addition, has an extensive repertoire of variants with low allele frequencies, < 1%, which is below the accurate detection limit of most other sequencing methodologies. The subclonal variants are unique to each individual and change in composition, frequency, and sequence context from diagnosis to relapse. Their functional significance is apparent by the observation that many are known variants and cluster within functionally important protein domains. Subclones provide a reservoir of variants that could expand and contribute to the development of drug resistance and relapse. In accord, we accurately identified subclonal variants in AML driver genes NRAS and RUNX1 at allele frequencies between 0.1% and 0.3% at diagnosis, which expanded to comprise a major fraction (14-53%) of the blast population at relapse. Early and accurate detection of subclonal variants with low allele frequency thus offers the opportunity for early intervention, prior to detection of clinical relapse, to improve disease outcome and enhance patient survival.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most frequent type of pediatric cancer with a peak incidence at 2-5 years of age. ALL frequently begins in utero with the emergence of clinically silent, preleukemic cells. Underlying leukemia-predisposing germline and acquired somatic mutations define distinct ALL subtypes that vary dramatically in treatment outcomes. In addition to genetic predisposition, a second hit, which usually occurs postnatally, is required for development of overt leukemia in most ALL subtypes. An untrained, dysregulated immune response, possibly due to an abnormal response to infection, may be an important co-factor triggering the onset of leukemia. Furthermore, the involvement of natural killer (NK) cells and T helper (Th) cells in controlling the preleukemic cells has been discussed. Identifying the cell of origin of the preleukemia-initiating event might give additional insights into potential options for prevention. Modulation of the immune system to achieve prolonged immunosurveillance of the preleukemic clone that eventually dies out in later years might present a future directive. Herein, we review the concepts of prenatal origin as well as potential preventive approaches to pediatric B cell precursor (BCP) ALL.
Psoriasis vulgaris is a chronic immune-mediated dermatological condition, resulting from an interaction between environmental triggers and genetic susceptibilities. Alteration in the production of the inflammatory mediators plays a pivotal part in the pathogenesis of the disease. Genes encoding the mediators of these inflammatory pathways can dictate susceptibility to psoriasis. These genes have a wide range of functions that involve innate immunity (IFIH1, TRAF3IP2, CARD14, c-REL, DDX58), antigen presentation (HLA-Cw6), T-cells development, maturation, and polarization (RUNX1, RUNX3, STAT3), cytokine signaling (IL12Bp40, IL23Ap19, IL23R, JAK2), and immune regulators (TNIP1, TNFAIP3, IL36RN, SOCS1, ZC3H12C, NFKBIA). The risk alleles of these genes can contribute to the overall state of susceptibility to psoriasis by lowering the threshold of the innate immune response that can eventually provoke the pathogenic adaptive immune responses capable of inducing psoriasis. The investigations on genetic associations of psoriasis may allow the discovery of new diseases modifying targets and possibly open a path for the advancement of personalized medicine. They also allow us to discover new aspects of human skin biology.
While joint arthroplasty remains nowadays the most popular option available to repair chronically degenerated osteoarthritic joints, possibilities are recently emerging for regeneration of damaged cartilage rather than its replacement with artificial biomaterials. This latter strategy could allow avoiding the quite intrusive surgical procedures associated with total joint replacement. Building upon this notion, we first apply Raman spectroscopy to characterize diseased cartilage in a mice model of instability-induced knee osteoarthritis (OA) upon medial collateral ligament (MCL) and medial meniscus (MM) transections. Then, we examine the same OA model after cartilage regeneration by means of messenger RNA (mRNA) delivery of a cartilage-anabolic runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1). Raman spectroscopy is shown to substantiate at the molecular scale the therapeutic effect of the Runx1 mRNA cartilage regeneration approach. This study demonstrates how the Raman spectroscopic method could support and accelerate the development of new therapies for cartilage diseases.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is frequently involved in the progression of acute leukemia. However, emerging and discoverable RUNX1 somatic mutations, RUNX1 expressional signatures in normal tissues and cancers, and RUNX1's clinical significance in many cancer types have attracted attention for considering RUNX1 as a biomarker for cancer. Recent discoveries have demonstrated the indirect and direct biological functions of RUNX1 in modulating cancer metastasis, proliferation, angiogenesis, cancer stemness and chemoresistance to anticancer drugs, warranting the further investigations of the underlying mechanisms to provide knowledge for developing a novel therapeutic approach. In this review article, we focused mainly on recent research developments involving oncogenic activities of RUNX1 by summarizing and integrating RUNX1 somatic mutations, clinical trials, transcriptome data, clinical information and the discoveries related to the RUNX1-induced signaling pathway in modulating malignant phenotypes. Furthermore, a comprehensive demonstration of RUNX1 RNA expression in a pancancer panel and specific normal cell types at single-cell level were presented, and the results suggest potential sites and cell types of RUNX1-related tumorigenesis. With this review, we aim to shed light on the understanding of the regulatory role of RUNX1 in cancer progression, and provide information for guiding potential research directions in this field.
Vessel co-option is correlated with resistance against anti-angiogenic therapy in colorectal cancer liver metastases (CRCLM). Vessel co-opting lesions are characterized by highly motile cancer cells that move toward and along the pre-existing vessels in the surrounding nonmalignant tissue and co-opt them to gain access to nutrients. To access the sinusoidal vessels, the cancer cells in vessel co-opting lesions must displace the hepatocytes and occupy their space. However, the mechanisms underlying this displacement are unknown. Herein, we examined the involvement of apoptosis, autophagy, motility, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) pathways in hepatocyte displacement by cancer cells. We demonstrate that cancer cells induce the expression of the proteins that are associated with the upregulation of apoptosis, motility, and EMT in adjacent hepatocytes in vitro and in vivo. Accordingly, we observe the upregulation of cleaved caspase-3, cleaved poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) and actin-related protein 2/3 (ARP2/3) in adjacent hepatocytes to cancer cell nests, while we notice a downregulation of E-cadherin. Importantly, the knockdown of runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) in cancer cells attenuates the function of cancer cells in hepatocytes alterations in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, our data suggest that cancer cells exploit various mechanisms to displace hepatocytes and access the sinusoidal vessels to establish vessel co-option.
Gastric cancer is a common tumor, with a high mortality rate. The severity of gastric cancer is assessed by TNM staging. Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play a role in cancer treatment; investigating the clinical significance of novel biomarkers associated with TNM staging, such as lncRNAs, is important. In this study, we investigated the association between the expression of the lncRNA LOC441461 and gastric cancer stage. LOC441461 expression was lower in stage IV than in stages I, II, and III. The depletion of LOC441461 promoted cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, apoptosis, cell motility, and invasiveness. LOC441461 downregulation increased the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, as indicated by increased TRAIL signaling and decreased RUNX1 interactions. The interaction of the transcription factors RELA, IRF1, ESR1, AR, POU5F1, TRIM28, and GATA1 with LOC441461 affected the degree of the malignancy of gastric cancer by modulating gene transcription. The present study identified LOC441461 and seven transcription factors as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for the treatment of gastric cancer.
Author information:(1)Hematology Division, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Diseases Center, Komagome Hospital.(2)Laboratory of Oncology, School of Life Sciences, Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences.(3)Clinical Research Support Center, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer, and Infectious diseases Center Komagome Hospital.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. As overall cure rates of childhood ALL have improved, reduction of overall treatment intensity while still ensuring excellent outcomes is imperative for low-risk patients. We report the outcomes of patients treated following the standard-risk protocol from the prospective Japan Association of Childhood Leukemia Study (JACLS) ALL-02 study, which was conducted between 2002 and 2008 for patients with newly diagnosed ALL aged 1-18 years. Of 1138 patients with B-cell precursor ALL, 388 (34.1%) were allocated to this protocol. Excellent outcomes were achieved despite the overall treatment intensity being lower than that of most contemporary protocols: 4 years event-free survival (EFS) was 92.3% and 4 years overall survival 98.2%. Patients with high hyperdiploidy (HHD) involving triple trisomy (trisomy of chromosomes 4, 10, and 17) or ETV6-RUNX1 had even better outcomes (4 years EFS 97.6% and 100%, respectively). Unique characteristics of this protocol include a selection of low-risk patients with a low initial WBC count and good early treatment response and reduction of cumulative doses of chemotherapeutic agents while maintaining dose density. In Japan, we are currently investigating the feasibility of this protocol while incorporating minimal residual disease into the patient stratification strategy.
Increased bone resorption by osteoclasts after estrogen deficiency is the main cause of postmenopausal osteoporosis. TET2 (tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2) is a DNA demethylase that regulates cellular function and differentiation potential. Macroautophagy/autophagy maintains cellular homeostasis by recycling unnecessary and damaged organelles. This study revealed that TET2 promoted bone loss in oophorectomized (OVX) mice and that TET2 promoted osteoclast differentiation by regulating autophagy. Tet2 knockdown inhibited autophagy and osteoclast differentiation in vitro. Mechanistically, Tet2 knockdown increased BCL2 (B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2) expression and BCL2 exhibited increased binding to BECN1 and negatively regulated autophagy. Small interfering RNA specific to Bcl2 interfered with BCL2 expression in Tet2-knockdown bone marrow cells/precursors, partially reversing autophagy dysregulation and promoting osteoclast differentiation. Moreover, the LV-shTet2 lentivirus prevented bone loss in OVX mice. In summary, our findings provide evidence that TET2 promotes osteoclast differentiation by inhibiting BCL2 expression and positively regulating BECN1-dependent autophagy.Abbreviations: ACP5/TRAP: acid phosphatase 5, tartrate resistant; ATP6V0D2: ATPase, H+ transporting, lysosomal V0 subunit D2; BCL2: B cell leukemia/lymphoma 2; BECN1: beclin 1, autophagy related; BMs: bone marrow cells; CTSK: cathepsin K; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MMP9: matrix metallopeptidase 9; OVX: oophorectomy; RUNX1: runt related transcription factor 1; SOCS3: suppressor of cytokine signaling 3; SPI1/PU.1: Spi-1 proto-oncogene; TNFSF11/RANKL: tumor necrosis factor (ligand) superfamily, member 11; TET2: tet methylcytosine dioxygenase 2.
Erratum for    Front Mol Biosci. 2021 Aug 09;8:692880.
CRLF2 overexpression has been described as a biomarker of poor prognosis in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL). In the present study, we aimed to unravel the genomic profile underlying CRLF2 overexpression (CRLF2-high) by analyzing RNA-seq, WES, and SNP-array data from 264 T-ALL patients and five cell lines deposited on the TARGET initiative, Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia and Gene Expression Omnibus. These data allowed us to delineate the genomic landscape of CRLF2-high in T-ALL, which was associated with PTEN, JAK3, PHF6, EZH2, and RUNX1 mutations. We also observed an enrichment of CRLF2-high in early T-precursor (ETP)-ALL (23.08% vs. 4.02%, P = 7.579e-06 ) and a very similar gene upregulation profile between these two entities. The inhibition of BET (iBET) proteins is a strategy previously demonstrated to reverse the gene upregulation pattern of ETP cells through restoration of polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) activity. While CRLF2 expression was rescued by using this strategy in LOUCY (untreated vs. iBET P = 0.0095, DMSO vs. iBET P = 0.0286), a classical ETP-ALL cell line, PRC2 loss was not sufficient to promote CRLF2 upregulation in JURKAT, a more mature T-ALL cell line. Considering the role of IKZF1 in CRLF2 regulation and in recruitment of PCR2, we evaluated IKZF1 status according to CRLF2-expression subgroups. We identified that IKZF1 transcripts with intron retention were upregulated in the CRLF2-high subgroup. Here, we delineated the gene expression profile of CRLF2-high T-ALL samples and unraveled the crucial role of PRC2 in CRLF2 regulation in ETP-ALL.
BACKGROUND: Influenza A viruses (IAVs) are zoonotic, segmented negative-stranded RNA viruses. The rapid mutation of IAVs results in host immune response escape and antiviral drug and vaccine resistance. RUNX1 is a transcription factor that not only plays essential roles in hematopoiesis, but also functions as a regulator in inflammation. However, its role in the innate immunity to IAV infection has not been well studied.METHODS: To investigate the effects of RUNX1 on IAV infection and explore the mechanisms that RUNX1 uses during IAV infection. We infected the human alveolar epithelial cell line (A549) with influenza virus A/Puerto Rico/8/34 (H1N1) (PR8) and examined RUNX1 expression by Western blot and qRT-PCR. We also knocked down or overexpressed RUNX1 in A549 cells, then evaluated viral replication by Western blot, qRT-PCR, and viral titration.RESULTS: We found RUNX1 expression is induced by IAV H1N1 PR8 infection, but not by poly(I:C) treatment, in the human alveolar epithelial cell line A549. Knockdown of RUNX1 significantly inhibited IAV infection. Conversely, overexpression of RUNX1 efficiently promoted production of progeny viruses. Additionally, RUNX1 knockdown increased IFN-β and ISGs production while RUNX1 overexpression compromised IFN-β and ISGs production upon PR8 infection in A549 cells. We further showed that RUNX1 may attenuate the interferon signaling transduction by hampering the expression of IRF3 and STAT1 during IAV infection.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, we found RUNX1 attenuates type I interferon signaling to facilitate IAV infection in A549 cells.
The hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) that produce blood for the lifetime of an animal arise from RUNX1+ hemogenic endothelial cells (HECs) in the embryonic vasculature through a process of endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT). Studies have identified inflammatory mediators and fluid shear forces as critical environmental stimuli for EHT, raising the question of how such diverse inputs are integrated to drive HEC specification. Endothelial cell MEKK3-KLF2/4 signaling can be activated by both fluid shear forces and inflammatory mediators, and it plays roles in cardiovascular development and disease that have been linked to both stimuli. Here we demonstrate that MEKK3 and KLF2/4 are required in endothelial cells for the specification of RUNX1+ HECs in both the yolk sac and dorsal aorta of the mouse embryo and for their transition to intraaortic hematopoietic cluster (IAHC) cells. The inflammatory mediators lipopolysaccharide and interferon-γ increase RUNX1+ HECs in an MEKK3-dependent manner. Maternal administration of catecholamines that stimulate embryo cardiac function and accelerate yolk sac vascular remodeling increases EHT by wild-type but not MEKK3-deficient endothelium. These findings identify MEKK-KLF2/4 signaling as an essential pathway for EHT and provide a molecular basis for the integration of diverse environmental inputs, such as inflammatory mediators and hemodynamic forces, during definitive hematopoiesis.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is a myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative overlap neoplasm characterized by sustained peripheral blood monocytosis and an inherent risk for transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (15-30% over 3-5 years). While CMML is morphologically classified into CMML-0, 1 and 2 based on peripheral blood and bone marrow promonocyte/blast counts, a more clinically relevant classification into dysplastic and proliferative subtypes, based on the presenting white blood cell count, is helpful in prognostication and therapeutics. CMML is a neoplasm associated with aging, occurring on the background of clonal hematopoiesis, with TET2 and SRSF2 mutations being early initiating events. The subsequent acquisitions of ASXL1, RUNX1, SF3B1 and DNMT3A mutations usually give rise to dysplastic CMML, while ASXL1, JAK2V617F and RAS pathway mutations give rise to proliferative CMML. Patients with proliferative CMML have a more aggressive course with higher rates of transformation to acute myeloid leukemia. Allogeneic stem cell transplant remains the only potential cure for CMML; however, given the advanced median age at presentation (73 years) and comorbidities, it is an option for only a few affected patients (10%). While DNA methyltransferase inhibitors are approved for the management of CMML, the overall response rates are 40-50%, with true complete remission rates of <20%. These agents seem to be particularly ineffective in proliferative CMML subtypes with RAS mutations, while the TET2mutant/ASXL1wildtype genotype seems to be the best predictor for responses. These agents epigenetically restore hematopoiesis in responding patients without altering mutational allele burdens and progression remains inevitable. Rationally derived personalized/targeted therapies with disease-modifying capabilities are much needed.
Ten-eleven translocation (Tet) enzymes promote DNA demethylation by oxidizing 5-methylcytosine. They are expressed during development and are essential for mouse gastrulation. However, their postgastrulation functions are not well established. We find that global or endothelial-specific loss of all three Tet enzymes immediately after gastrulation leads to reduced number of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) and lethality in mid-gestation mouse embryos. This is due to defects in specification of HSPCs from endothelial cells (ECs) that compromise primitive and definitive hematopoiesis. Mechanistically, loss of Tet enzymes in ECs led to hypermethylation and down-regulation of NFκB1 and master hematopoietic transcription factors (Gata1/2, Runx1, and Gfi1b). Restoring Tet catalytic activity or overexpression of these factors in Tet-deficient ECs rescued hematopoiesis defects. This establishes Tet enzymes as activators of hematopoiesis programs in ECs for specification of HSPCs during embryogenesis, which is distinct from their roles in adult hematopoiesis, with implications in deriving HSPCs from pluripotent cells.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder responsible for shaking, rigidity, and trouble in walking and patients' coordination ability and physical stability deteriorate day by day. Bipolar disorder (BD) is a psychiatric disorder which is the reason behind extreme shiftiness in mood, and frequent mood inversion may reach too high called mania. People with BD have a greater chance of developing PD during the follow-up period. A lot of work has been done to understand the key factors for developing these 2 diseases. But the molecular functionalities that trigger the development of PD in people with BD are not clear yet. In our study, we are intended to identify the molecular biomarkers and pathways shared between BD and PD. We have investigated the RNA-Seq gene expression data sets of PD and BD. A total of 45 common unique genes (32 up-regulated and 13 down-regulated) abnormally expressed in both PD and BD were identified by applying statistical methods on the GEO data sets. Gene ontology (GO) and BioCarta, KEGG, and Reactome pathways analysis of these 45 common dysregulated genes identified numerous altered molecular pathways such as mineral absorption, Epstein-Barr virus infection, HTLV-I infection, antigen processing, and presentation. Analysis of protein-protein interactions revealed 9 significant hub-proteins, namely RPL21, RPL34, CKS2, B2M, TNFRSF10A, DTX2, HLA-B, ATP2A3, and TAPBP. Significant transcription factors (IRF8, SPI1, RUNX1, and FOXA1) and posttranscriptional regulator microRNAs (hsa-miR-491-3p and hsa-miR-1246) are also found by analyzing gene-transcription factors and gene-miRNAs interactions, respectively. Protein-drug interaction analysis revealed hub-protein B2M's interaction with molecular drug candidates like N-formylmethionine, 3-indolebutyric acid, and doxycycline. Finally, a link between pathological processes of PD and BD is identified at transcriptional level. This study may help us to predict the development of PD among the people suffering from BD and gives some clue to understand significant pathological mechanisms.
Graves' disease (GD) is a kind of autoimmune diseases. The development of GD is closely related to the imbalance of Th1/Th2 generated by the differentiation of CD4+ T cells. This study was sought to clarify the role of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 and explore the mechanism of its function. The expressions of RUNX1-IT1 and Neural cell adhesion molecule (NrCAM) in the peripheral blood of GD patients were detected by qRT-PCR and Western blot. We performed RNA pull down, RIP, and ChIP experiments to verify the correlation between p53 and RUNX1-IT1, p53 and NrCAM. The levels of Th1 cells differentiation markers were detected by Flow cytometry assay and ELISA. The expressions of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 and NrCAM were most significantly up-regulated in CD4+ T cells of GD patients, and NrCAM expression was significantly positively correlated with RUNX1-IT1 expression. Furthermore, p53 was a potential transcription factor of NrCAM, which could interact with NrCAM. NrCAM level was up-regulated after the overexpression of p53 in CD4+ T cells, while knockdown of RUNX1-IT1 reversed this effect. Down-regulation of NrCAM and RUNX1-IT1 could decrease the mRNA and protein levels of transcriptional regulator T-bet and CXC chemokine ligand 10 (CXCL10) in CD4+ T cells. Our results suggested that RUNX1-IT1 regulated the expressions of the important Th1 factor T-bet, CXCL10, and interferon γ (IFN-γ) by regulating NrCAM transcription, thus participating in the occurrence and development of specific autoimmune disease GD.
Erythropoiesis and megakaryo-/thrombopoiesis occur in the bone marrow proceeding from common, even bipotent, progenitor cells. Recently, we have shown that protective vaccination accelerates extramedullary hepatic erythroblastosis in response to blood-stage malaria of Plasmodium chabaudi. Here, we investigated whether protective vaccination also accelerates extramedullary hepatic megakaryo-/thrombopoiesis. Female Balb/c mice were twice vaccinated with a non-infectious vaccine before infecting with 106&nbsp;P. chabaudi-parasitized erythrocytes. Using gene expression microarrays and quantitative real-time PCR, transcripts of genes known to be expressed in the bone marrow by cells of the megakaryo-/thrombocytic lineage were compared in livers of vaccination-protected and unprotected mice on days 0, 1, 4, 8, and 11 p.i. Livers of vaccination-protected mice responded with expression of megakaryo-/thrombocytic genes faster to P. chabaudi than those of unvaccinated mice, evidenced at early patency on day 4 p.i., when livers exhibited significantly higher levels of malaria-induced transcripts of the genes Selp and Pdgfb (p-values < 0.0001), Gp5 (p-value < 0.001), and Fli1, Runx1, Myb, Mpl, Gp1ba, Gp1bb, Gp6, Gp9, Pf4, and Clec1b (p-values < 0.01). Together with additionally analyzed genes known to be related to megakaryopoiesis, our data suggest that protective vaccination accelerates liver-intrinsic megakaryo-/thrombopoiesis in response to blood-stage malaria that presumably contributes to vaccination-induced survival of otherwise lethal blood-stage malaria.
Microcystin-LR (MC-LR) exists widely in polluted food and water in humid and warm areas, and facilitates the progression of colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the molecular mechanism associated with the MC-LR-induced CRC progression remains elusive. The purpose of this study is to explore the role of the hub genes associated with MC-LR-induced CRC development at the molecular, cellular and clinical levels through bioinformatics and traditional experiments. By utilizing R, we screened and investigated the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between the MC-LR and the control groups with the GEO, in which, HOXB4 highly expressed in MC-LR-treated group was identified and further explored as a hub gene. With the aid of TCGA, GEPIA, HPA, UALCAN, Cistrome, and TIMER, the increased mRNA and protein levels of HOXB4 in CRC tissue were found to be positively associated with high tumor stage and poor prognosis, and were linked to immune infiltration, especially tumor-associated macrophages and cancer-associated fibroblasts. Cox regression analysis and nomogram prediction model indicated that high HOXB4 expression was correlated to poor survival probability. To elucidate the mechanism of high HOXB4 expression induced by MC-LR, we overlapped the genes involved in the MC-LR-mediated CRC pathways and the HOXB4-correlated transcription genes. Importantly, C-myc instead of PPARG and RUNX1 promoted the high expression of HOXB4 through experiment validation, and was identified as a key target gene. Interestingly, C-myc was up-regulated by HOXB4 and maintained cell cycle progression. In addition, MC-LR was proved to up-regulate HOXB4 expression, thus promoting proliferation and migration of Caco2 cells and driving the cell cycle progression. In conclusion, MC-LR might accelerate CRC progression. In the process, MC-LR induced C-myc augmentation elevates the high expression of HOXB4 through increasing the S phase cell proportion to enhance Caco2 cell proliferation. Therefore, HOXB4 might be considered as a potential prognostic biomarker for CRC.
Transcription factors are an extremely important group of proteins that are responsible for the process of selective activation or deactivation of other cellular proteins, usually at the last stage of signal transmission in the cell. An important family of transcription factors that regulate the body's response is the FOX family which plays an important role in regulating the expression of genes involved in cell growth, proliferation, and differentiation. The members of this family include the intracellular protein Foxp3, which regulates the process of differentiation of the T lymphocyte subpopulation, and more precisely, is responsible for the development of regulatory T lymphocytes. This protein influences several cellular processes both directly and indirectly. In the process of cytokine production regulation, the Foxp3 protein interacts with numerous proteins and transcription factors such as NFAT, nuclear factor kappa B, and Runx1/AML1 and is involved in the process of histone acetylation in condensed chromatin. Malfunctioning of transcription factor Foxp3 caused by the mutagenesis process affects the development of disorders of the immune response and autoimmune diseases. This applies to the impairment or inability of the immune system to fight infections due to a disruption of the mechanisms supporting immune homeostasis which in turn leads to the development of a special group of disorders called primary immunodeficiencies (PID). The aim of this review is to provide information on the role of the Foxp3 protein in the human body and its involvement in the development of two types of primary immunodeficiency diseases: IPEX (Immunodysregulation Polyendocrinopathy Enteropathy X-linked syndrome) and CVID (Common Variable Immunodeficiency).
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by the progressive degeneration of motor neurons, leading to muscle atrophy, paralysis and even death. Immune disorder, redox imbalance, autophagy disorder, and iron homeostasis disorder have been shown to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of ALS. However, the exact pathogenic genes and the underlying mechanism of ALS remain unclear. The purpose of this study was to screen for pathogenic regulatory genes and prognostic markers in ALS using bioinformatics methods. We used Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and expression regulation network analysis to investigate the function of differentially expressed genes in the nerve tissue, lymphoid tissue, and whole blood of patients with ALS. Our results showed that the up-regulated genes were mainly involved in immune regulation and inflammation, and the down-regulated genes were mainly involved in energy metabolism and redox processes. Eleven up-regulated transcription factors (CEBPB, CEBPD, STAT5A, STAT6, RUNX1, REL, SMAD3, GABPB2, FOXO1, PAX6, and FOXJ1) and one down-regulated transcription factor (NOG) in the nerve tissue of patients with ALS likely play important regulatory roles in the pathogenesis of ALS. Based on construction and evaluation of the ALS biomarker screening model, cluster analysis of the identified characteristic genes, univariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis, and the random survival forest algorithm, we found that MAEA, TPST1, IFNGR2, and ALAS2 may be prognostic markers regarding the survival of ALS patients. High expression of MAEA, TPST1, and IFNGR2 and low expression of ALAS2 in ALS patients may be closely related to short survival of ALS patients. Taken together, our results indicate that immune disorders, inflammation, energy metabolism, and redox imbalance may be the important pathogenic factors of ALS. CEBPB, CEBPD, STAT5A, STAT6, RUNX1, REL, SMAD3, GABPB2, FOXO1, PAX6, FOXJ1, and NOG may be important regulatory factors linked to the pathogenesis of ALS. MAEA, TPST1, IFNGR2, and ALAS2 are potential important ALS prognostic markers. Our findings provide evidence on the pathogenesis of ALS, potential targets for the development of new drugs for ALS, and important markers for predicting ALS prognosis.
The fusion protein RUNX1-ETO is an oncogenic transcription factor generated by t(8;21) chromosome translocation, which is found in FAB-M2-type acute myeloid leukemia (AML). RUNX1-ETO is known to dysregulate the normal RUNX1 transcriptional network, which should involve essential factors for the onset of AML with t(8;21). In this study, we screened for possible transcriptional targets of RUNX1 by reanalysis of public data in silico, and identified C11orf21 as a novel RUNX1 target gene because its expression was down-regulated in the presence of RUNX1-ETO. The expression level of C11orf21 was low in AML patient samples with t(8;21) and in Kasumi-1 cells, which carry RUNX1-ETO. Knockdown of RUNX1-ETO in Kasumi-1 cells restored C11orf21 expression, whereas overexpression of RUNX1 up-regulated C11orf21 expression. In addition, knockdown of RUNX1 in other human leukemia cells without RUNX-ETO, such as K562, led to a decrease in C11orf21 expression. Of note, the C11orf21 promoter sequence contains a consensus sequence for RUNX1 binding and it was activated by exogenously expressed RUNX1 based on our luciferase reporter assay. This luciferase signal was trans-dominantly suppressed by RUNX1-ETO and site-directed mutagenesis of the consensus site abrogated the reporter activity. This study demonstrated that C11orf21 is a novel transcriptional target of RUNX1 and RUNX1-ETO suppressed C11orf21 transcription in t(8;21) AML. Thus, through this in silico approach, we identified a novel transcriptional target of RUNX1, and the depletion of C11orf21, the target gene, may be associated with the onset of t(8;21) AML.
Chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) relates to mutational CSF3R activation with membrane proximal CSF3R mutations such as T618I as driver mutations, but the significance of truncating mutations is not clarified. In CNL, concomitant mutations promote disease progression, but insight into longitudinal acquisition is incomplete. In this study, we investigated the role of co-occurring germline and somatic CSF3R mutations in CNL, and assessed the impact of clonal evolution on transformation to acute leukemia. We employed sequential next generation sequencing and SNP array karyotyping to assess clonal evolution in CNL of early manifestation age based on a 33-year-old patient. Germline vs. somatic mutations were differentiated using a sample from the hair follicle. To investigate a potential predisposition for CNL development and progression by germline CSF3R-W791*, allelic localizations were evaluated. We detected a somatic CSF3R-T618I mutation at 46% variant allele frequency (VAF) at the time of CNL diagnosis, which co-occurred with a CSF3R-W791* truncation at 50% VAF in the germline. Evaluation of allelic localization revealed CSF3R-T618I and W791* on the same allele. A concomitant ASXL1 mutation at 39% VAF increased to 48% VAF upon transformation to mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL), which has both myeloid and lymphoid features. Clonal evolution further involved expansion of the CSF3R double-mutant clone to 90% VAF via copy neutral loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 1p and the emergence of a RUNX1 mutant subclone. Allogeneic transplantation induced complete remission. This study highlights that CNL not only transforms to AML but also to MPAL. The molecular evolution is especially interesting with a CSF3R-W791* mutation in the germline and acquisition of CSF3R-T618I on the same allele compatible with increased susceptibility for mutation acquisition facilitating RUNX1-related clonal transformation.
Evasion from drug-induced apoptosis is a crucial mechanism of cancer treatment resistance. The proapoptotic protein NOXA marks an aggressive pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) subtype. To identify drugs that unleash the death-inducing potential of NOXA, we performed an unbiased drug screening experiment. In NOXA-deficient isogenic cellular models, we identified an inhibitor of the transcription factor heterodimer CBFβ/RUNX1. By genetic gain and loss of function experiments, we validated that the mode of action depends on RUNX1 and NOXA. Of note is that RUNX1 expression is significantly higher in PDACs compared to normal pancreas. We show that pharmacological RUNX1 inhibition significantly blocks tumor growth in vivo and in primary patient-derived PDAC organoids. Through genome-wide analysis, we detected that RUNX1-loss reshapes the epigenetic landscape, which gains H3K27ac enrichment at the NOXA promoter. Our study demonstrates a previously unknown mechanism of NOXA-dependent cell death, which can be triggered pharmaceutically. Therefore, our data show a way to target a therapy-resistant PDAC, an unmet clinical need.
CONTEXT: The osteogenic potential of the human dental pulp stromal cells (hDPSCs) was reduced in the state of oxidative stress. Resveratrol (RSV) possesses numerous biological properties, including osteogenic potential, growth-promoting and antioxidant activities.OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the osteogenic potential of RSV by activating the Sirt1/Nrf2 pathway on oxidatively stressed hDPSCs and old mice.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The hDPSCs were subjected to reactive oxygen species (ROS) fluorescence staining, cell proliferation assay, ROS activity assay, superoxide dismutase (SOD) enzyme activity, the glutathione (GSH) concentration assay, alkaline phosphatase staining, real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Sirt1 immunofluorescence labelling to assess the antioxidant stress and osteogenic ability of RSV. Forty female Kunming mice were divided into Old, Old-RSV, Young and Young-RSV groups to assess the repair of calvarial defects of 0.2 mL RSV of 20 mg/kg/d for seven days by injecting intraperitoneally at 4 weeks after surgery using micro-computed tomography, nonlinear optical microscope and immunohistochemical analysis.RESULTS: RSV abates oxidative stress by alleviating the proliferation, mitigating the ROS activity, increasing the SOD enzyme activity and ameliorating the GSH concentration (RSV IC50 in hDPSCs is 67.65 ± 9.86). The antioxidative stress and osteogenic capabilities of RSV were confirmed by the up-regulated gene expression of SOD1, xCT, RUNX2 and OCN, as well as Sirt1/Nrf2. The collagen, bone matrix formation and Sirt1 expression, are significantly increased after RSV treatment in mice.DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: For elderly or patients with oxidative stress physiological states such as hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, etc., RSV may potentially improve bone augmentation surgery in regenerative medicine.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients who develop hematological relapse (HR) after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) generally have dismal clinical outcomes. Measurable residual disease (MRD)-directed preemptive interventions are effective approaches to prevent disease progression and improve prognosis for molecular relapsed patients with warning signs of impending HR. In this situation, boosting the graft-vs-leukemia (GVL) effect with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) might be a promising prevention strategy, despite the potential for causing severe graft-vs-host disease (GVHD). In the present study, we reported for the first time an AML patient with RUNX1-RUNX1T1 who underwent preemptive treatment with the combined application of tislelizumab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) and azacitidine to avoid HR following allo-HSCT. On day +81, molecular relapse with MRD depicted by RUNX1-RUN1T1-positivity as well as mixed donor chimerism occurred in the patient. On day +95, with no signs of GVHD and an excellent eastern cooperative oncology group performance status (ECOG PS), the patient thus was administered with 100 mg of tislelizumab on day 1 and 100 mg of azacitidine on days 1-7. After the combination therapy, complete remission was successfully achieved with significant improvement in hematologic response, and the MRD marker RUNX1-RUNX1T1 turned negative, along with a complete donor chimerism in bone marrow. Meanwhile, the patient experienced moderate GVHD and immune-related adverse events (irAEs), successively involving the lung, liver, lower digestive tract and urinary system, which were well controlled by immunosuppressive therapies. As far as we know, this case is the first one to report the use of tislelizumab in combination with azacitidine to prevent post-transplant relapse in AML. In summary, the application of ICIs in MRD positive patients might be an attractive strategy for immune modulation in the future to reduce the incidence of HR in the post-transplant setting, but safer clinical application schedules need to be explored.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a kind of common neurogenetic disorder associated with various developmental deficits. Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been frequently verified to be crucial modulators in human diseases. However, the functions of circRNAs on the occurrence of NF1 remain largely obscure. In our study, RT-qPCR was applied to analyze circ_0061,587 expression and we noticed that circ_0061,587 expression was overtly elevated in human NF1-associated malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) cell lines. Meanwhile, the results of loss-of-function assays revealed that silencing of circ_0061,587 hampered the proliferation, migration, and invasion but stimulated the apoptosis of human NF1-associated MPNST cells. In addition, mechanism assays were implemented to unveil the possible regulatory mechanism behind circ_0061,587. As a result, circ_0061,587 sequestered microRNA-485-5p (miR-485-5p) to modulate the expression of RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and annexin A11 (ANXA11). Finally, rescue experiments confirmed that circ_0061,587 boosted the malignant behaviors of human NF1-associated MPNST cells through up-regulating RUNX1 and ANXA11. In conclusion, circ_0061,587 functioned as an oncogene in NF1-associated MPNST cells and this study might provide novel insights for the diagnosis and treatment of NF1.
Atherosclerosis (AS) is a chronic inflammatory disease with the formation and accumulation of macrophage-derived foam cells in the subendothelial space of blood vessels as one major characteristic. Insulin-like growth factor 2 messenger RNA (mRNA) binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) is an RNA-binding factor and its elevation has been reported to be associated with macrophage infiltration into the atherosclerotic vascular wall. This study aims to investigate the roles of IGF2BP1 in AS-associated foam cell formation. Herein, ApoE-/- mice fed with high-fat diet developed atherosclerotic lesions in the aorta, where IGF2BP1 expression was upregulated and autophagy was impaired. IGF2BP1 expressed in F4/80+ macrophages and coexisted with p62. In vitro, IGF2BP1 expression was upregulated in RAW264.7 macrophages exposed to oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) (100 μg/ml). Interestingly, silencing of IGF2BP1 ameliorated ox-LDL-induced lipid accumulation and inflammation, and enhanced autophagic flux in macrophages. Furthermore, the expression of RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), a gene that is able to inhibit autophagy in multiple cell types, was elevated in atherosclerotic aortas and in ox-LDL-treated macrophages. In addition, RNA immunoprecipitation results revealed that IGF2BP1 is bound to RUNX1 mRNA. Alterations induced by IGF2BP1 knockdown in ox-LDL-treated macrophages were abolished by RUNX1 overexpression. Furthermore, after autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine administration, silencing of IGF2BP1-reduced lipid accumulation and inflammation were recovered in RAW264.7 cells. In summary, our study demonstrated that silencing of IGF2BP1 restrained ox-LDL-induced lipid accumulation and inflammation by reducing RUNX1 expression and facilitating autophagy in macrophages. IGF2BP1/RUNX1 axis may be considered as a potential therapeutic target in AS.
Comment on    Blood. 2022 Feb 17;139(7):1080-1097.
BACKGROUND: Study of the molecular biological characteristics of chronic neutrophilic leukemia complicated with plasma cell disorder (CNL-PCD) and lymphocytic proliferative disease (CNL-LPD).METHODS: The clinical data of a patient with chronic neutrophilic leukemia complicated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (CNL-MGUS) in our hospital were reviewed, and the Chinese and/or English literature about CNL-PCD and CNL-LPD in PubMed and the Chinese database CNKI in the past 10 years was searched to analyze the molecular biological characteristics of this disease.RESULTS: A 73-year-old male had persistent leukocytosis for 18 months. The white blood cell count was 46.77 × 109/L and primarily composed of mature neutrophils; hemoglobin: 77 g/L; platelet count: 189 × 109/L. Serum immunofixation electrophoresis showed IgG-λ monoclonal M protein. A CT scan showed splenomegaly. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) showed that CSF3R T618I, ASXL1 and RUNX1 mutations were positive. It was diagnosed as CNL-MGUS. We summarized 10 cases of CNL-PCD and 1 case of CNL-LPD who underwent genetic mutation detection reported in the literature. The CSF3R mutational frequency (7/11, 63.6%) was lower than that of isolated CNL. The ASXL1 mutations were all positive (3/3), which may represent a poor prognostic factor. The SETBP1 mutation may promote the progression of CNL-PCD. We also found JAK2, RUNX1, NRAS, etc. in CNL-PCD.CONCLUSIONS: Chronic neutrophilic leukemia may be more inclined to coexist with plasma cell disorder. The CSF3R mutation in CNL-PCD is still the most common mutated gene compared with isolated CNL. Mutations in SETBP1 and ASXL1 may be poor prognostic factors for CNL-PCD.
Aberrant expression of certain glycosphingolipids (GSLs) is associated with the differentiation of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells. However, the expression patterns of GSLs in AML are still poorly explored because of their complexity, the presence of multiple isomeric structures, and tedious analytical procedures. In this study, we performed an in-depth GSL glycan analysis of 19 AML cell lines using porous graphitized carbon liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry revealing strikingly different GSL glycan profiles between the various AML cell lines. The cell lines of the M6 subtype showed a high expression of gangliosides with α2,3-sialylation and Neu5Gc, while the M2 and M5 subtypes were characterized by high expression of (neo)lacto-series glycans and Lewis A/X antigens. Integrated analysis of glycomics and available transcriptomics data revealed the association of GSL glycan abundances with the transcriptomics expression of certain glycosyltransferases (GTs) and transcription factors (TFs). In addition, correlations were found between specific GTs and TFs. Our data reveal TFs GATA2, GATA1, and RUNX1 as candidate inducers of the expression of gangliosides and sialylation via regulation of the GTs ST3GAL2 and ST8SIA1. In conclusion, we show that GSL glycan expression levels are associated with hematopoietic AML classifications and TF and GT gene expression. Further research is needed to dissect the regulation of GSL expression and its role in hematopoiesis and associated malignancies.
The chimeric oncogene AML1-MTG8 (RUNX1-RUNX1T1) is generated in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Here, we report a novel interaction of MTG8/RUNX1T1/ETO with UBC9/UBE2I. AML1-MTG8 protein also interacted with UBC9, suggesting a role in leukemogenesis. Overexpression of UBC9 in Kasumi-1 attenuated myeloid differentiation induced by all-trans retinoic acid, G-CSF, and GM-CSF (AGGM), which was judged by suppression of CD11b. In addition, the UBC9 inhibitor 2-D08 accelerated myeloid differentiation induced by AGGM in two t(8;21) AML cell lines, Kasumi-1 and SKNO-1. These data suggest that UBC9 may play a role in leukemogenesis in t(8;21) AML by working with AML1-MTG8 to suppress myeloid differentiation. Therefore, UBC9 may be a good target for new differentiation therapy against t(8;21) AML.
Light-emitting diode (LED)-based therapies, particularly blue LEDs with wavelengths of 400-500 nm, have shown beneficial results in several cancers, including melanoma, lymphoid cells, and skin tumors. In this study, the cell viability and apoptosis of Kasumi-1 cells treated by blue light (BL) irradiation have been explored. Firstly, BL can specially inhibit the proliferation and promote the apoptosis of Kasumi-1 cells. Furthermore, the apoptosis was triggered by the production of reactive oxygen species and the decline of mitochondrial membrane potential which was regulated by the ratio of Bcl-2(Bcl-xL)/Bax; BL caused the cells' final apoptosis accompanied with the increased cleavage of caspase-3 and poly-ADP-ribose polymerase. Finally, BL induced the degradation of AML1-ETO dependent on the activation of caspase-3. These results are helpful for establishing a low toxicity and high efficiency strategy of BL irradiation for clinical treatment of Kasumi-1 cells.
The transcription factor RUNX1 is a critical regulator of developmental hematopoiesis and is frequently disrupted in leukemia. Runx1 is a large, complex gene that is expressed from two alternative promoters under the spatiotemporal control of multiple hematopoietic enhancers. To dissect the dynamic regulation of Runx1 in hematopoietic development, we analyzed its three-dimensional chromatin conformation in mouse embryonic stem cell (ESC) differentiation cultures. Runx1 resides in a 1.1 Mb topologically associating domain (TAD) demarcated by convergent CTCF motifs. As ESCs differentiate to mesoderm, chromatin accessibility, Runx1 enhancer-promoter (E-P) interactions, and CTCF-CTCF interactions increase in the TAD, along with initiation of Runx1 expression from the P2 promoter. Differentiation to hematopoietic progenitor cells is associated with the formation of tissue-specific sub-TADs over Runx1, a shift in E-P interactions, P1 promoter demethylation, and robust expression from both Runx1 promoters. Deletion of promoter-proximal CTCF sites at the sub-TAD boundaries has no obvious effects on E-P interactions but leads to partial loss of domain structure, mildly affects gene expression, and delays hematopoietic development. Together, our analysis of gene regulation at a large multi-promoter developmental gene reveals that dynamic sub-TAD chromatin boundaries play a role in establishing TAD structure and coordinated gene expression.
OBJECTIVE: Periodontitis is a highly prevalent oral infectious disease and has been increasingly associated with H. pylori infection, gastric inflammation, and gastric cancer but little is known about epigenetic machinery underlying this potentially bidirectional association. The present study is aimed at identifying key deregulated miRNA, their associated genes, signaling pathways, and compounds linking periodontitis with H. pylori-associated peptic ulcer disease.METHODS: miRNA expression datasets for periodontitis-affected and H. pylori-associated peptic ulcer disease-affected tissues were sought from the GEO database. Differentially expressed miRNA (DEmiRNAs) were identified and the overlapping, shared-DEmiRNA between both datasets were determined. Shared-DEmiRNA-target networks construction and functional analyses were constructed using miRNet 2.0, including shared-DEmiRNA-gene, shared-DEmiRNA-transcription factor (TF), and shared-DEmiRNA-compound networks. Functional enrichment analysis for shared DEmiRNA-gene and shared DEmiRNA-TF networks was performed using the KEGG, Reactome, and Geno Ontology (GO) pathways.RESULTS: 11 shared-DEmiRNAs were identified, among which 9 showed similar expression patterns in both diseases, and 7 were overexpressed. miRNA hsa-hsa-mir-155-5p and hsa-mir-29a-3p were top miRNA nodes in both gene and TF networks. The topmost candidate miRNA-deregulated genes were PTEN, CCND1, MDM2, TNRC6A, and SCD while topmost deregulated TFs included STAT3, HIF1A, EZH2, CEBPA, and RUNX1. Curcumin, 5-fluorouracil, and the gallotanin 1,2,6-Tri-O-galloyl-beta-D-glucopyranose emerged as the most relevant linkage compound targets. Functional analyses revealed multiple cancer-associated pathways, PI3K pathways, kinase binding, and transcription factor binding among as enriched by the network-associated genes and TFs.CONCLUSION: Integrative analysis of deregulated miRNAs revealed candidate molecular mechanisms comprising of top miRNA, their gene, and TF targets linking H. pylori-infected peptic ulcer disease with periodontitis and highlighted compounds targeting both diseases. These findings provide basis for directing future experimental research.
Wnt signaling driven by genomic alterations in genes including APC and CTNNB, which encodes β-catenin, have been implicated in prostate cancer development and progression to metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). However, nongenomic drivers and downstream effectors of Wnt signaling in prostate cancer and the therapeutic potential of targeting this pathway in prostate cancer have not been fully established. Here we analyzed Wnt/β-catenin signaling in prostate cancer and identified effectors distinct from those found in other tissues, including aryl hydrocarbon receptor and RUNX1, which are linked to stem cell maintenance, and ROR1, a noncanonical Wnt5a coreceptor. Wnt/β-catenin signaling-mediated increases in ROR1 enhanced noncanonical responses to Wnt5a. Regarding upstream drivers, APC genomic loss, but not its epigenetic downregulation commonly observed in prostate cancer, was strongly associated with Wnt/β-catenin pathway activation in clinical samples. Tumor cell upregulation of the Wnt transporter Wntless (WLS) was strongly associated with Wnt/β-catenin pathway activity in primary prostate cancer but also associated with both canonical and noncanonical Wnt signaling in mCRPC. IHC confirmed tumor cell WLS expression in primary prostate cancer and mCRPC, and patient-derived prostate cancer xenografts expressing WLS were responsive to treatment with Wnt synthesis inhibitor ETC-1922159. These findings reveal that Wnt/β-catenin signaling in prostate cancer drives stem cell maintenance and invasion and primes for noncanonical Wnt signaling through ROR1. They further show that autocrine Wnt production is a nongenomic driver of canonical and noncanonical Wnt signaling in prostate cancer, which can be targeted with Wnt synthesis inhibitors to suppress tumor growth.SIGNIFICANCE: This work provides fundamental insights into Wnt signaling and prostate cancer cell biology and indicates that a subset of prostate cancer driven by autocrine Wnt signaling is sensitive to Wnt synthesis inhibitors.
p15INK4b (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2B, CDKN2B, p15), a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI) belonging to the INK4 family, plays an important role in hematopoiesis. Its expression level was positively related to the blockage effects of RUNX1b at the early stage. Experiments using human embryonic stem cell (hESC) lines with inducible p15 expression suggested that p15 overexpression can significantly decrease the proportion of KDR+ cells in S and G2-M stages 4 days after induction from day 0. Moreover, p15 overexpression from the early stage can decrease production of CD34highCD43- cells and their derivative populations, but not CD34lowCD43- cells. These effects were weakened if induction was delayed and disappeared if induction started after day 6. All these effects were counteracted by inhibition of TGF-β signaling. TGF-β1 stimulation elicited similar effects as p15 overexpression. RUNX1 overexpression and activation of the TGF-β signaling pathway upregulate the expression of p15, which is partially responsible for blockade of hematopoiesis and relevant to a change in the cell cycle status. However, it is possible that other mechanisms are involved in the regulation of hematopoiesis.
Exosomes are participated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases and can be secreted by mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). However, the effects of circRNA, delivered by exosomes derived from MSCs, on myocardial injury remain unclear. Hence, this study aims to explore the therapeutic potential of exosomes derived from circRNA_0002113 lacking MSCs in the treatment of myocardial injury in vitro and in vivo. Our results reveal that exosomes derived from circRNA_0002113 lacking MSCs decreased cell apoptosis in anoxia-reoxygenation (A/R) model cells, and reduced myocardial injury by inhibiting nuclear translocation of RUNX1 in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, miR-188-3p, which targets RUNX1 in cardiomyocytes was also found to interact with circRNA_0002113. In conclusion, exosomes derived from circRNA_0002113 lacking MSCs could suppress myocardial infarction by sponging miR-188-3p to regulate RUNX1 nuclear translocation. The circRNA_0002113/miR-188-3p/RUNX1 axis mediated alleviation of apoptosis serves as a novel strategy to treat myocardial I/R injury.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a heterogeneous group of myeloid neoplasms characterized by the presence of cytopenias, ineffective hematopoiesis and frequent transformation into secondary acute myeloid leukemia (secAML). Recent genomic studies provide unprecedented insight into the molecular landscape of clonal proliferation in MDS. Genetic diversity of both MDS and secAML subclones cannot be defined by a single somatic mutation. Mutations of the founding clone may survive over implemented chemotherapy and allogenic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT), but new subclonal mutations may also appear. Next generation sequencing (NGS) makes it possible to define the mutational profile of disease subclones during the treatment course and has a potential in pre- and post-alloHCT monitoring. Understanding the molecular pathophysiology of MDS may soon allow for monitoring the course of disease and personalized treatment depending on the mutational landscape. In the present paper we report, for the first time in MDS, ASXL1 c.1945G>T, TET2 c.4044+2dupT and c.4076G>T sequence variants. Moreover, we detected RUNX1 c.509-2A>C and SF3B1 c.1874G>T sequence variants. Furthermore, we verify the clinical utility of NGS and pyrosequencing in MDS and secAML.
In the past decade, the cleavage protein irisin derived from fibronectin type III domain-containing protein 5 (FNDC5) in exercise-stimulated skeletal muscle has increasingly become a biomarker associated with metabolic syndrome and osteoporosis in humans. However, it is unclear how this protein facilitates muscle-adipose-bone connectivity in metabolic and skeletal homeostasis. In this study, we unexpectedly observed that the FNDC5 gene can be markedly activated during the differentiation of brown adipocytes but not white adipocytes, and that FNDC5 is specifically expressed in mouse brown adipose tissues (BATs). But unlike it in the skeletal muscles, the expression of FNDC5/irisin in BAT is promoted by cold exposure rather than exercise in mice. Analysis of promoter activity and chromatin immunoprecipitation further showed that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α and thyroid hormone receptors cooperate on the FNDC5 gene promoter to induce its transcription. We found that FNDC5/irisin stimulates the runt-related transcriptional factors RUNX1/2 via a focal adhesion kinase-dependent pathway in both bone and subcutaneous white adipose tissues. Mechanistically, focal adhesion kinase is stimulated by FNDC5/irisin and then facilitates E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase WW domain-containing protein 2 to ubiquitinate and subsequently activate RUNX1/2, culminating in the activation of osteoblast-related or thermogenesis-related genes. Interestingly, the PR domain containing protein 16 that is crucial for subcutaneous white adipose "browning" and skeletal development was found to form a complex with RUNX1/2 in a WW domain-containing protein 2-dependent manner. These findings elucidate a signaling mechanism by which FNDC5/irisin supports the muscle-adipose-bone connectivity, especially BAT-bone connectivity.
DOI: 10.1038/s41375-022-01508-1PMCID: PMC8885404PMID: 35121847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
BACKGROUND: This study sought to explore the role of long non-coding ribonucleic acid (lncRNA) RUNX1-IT1 in lung cancer proliferation and cell stemness and clarify its molecular mechanism.METHODS: Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction was used to detect the expression levels of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 in lung cancer cell lines and tissues. Cell Counting Kit 8, a plate cloning experiment, a cell suspension sphere-forming assay and a Transwell assay were used to identify the effects of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 overexpression or down-expression on clone formation, cell progression, cell stemness, and invasion. Western blot was used to detect the expression of associated proteins that regulate cell invasion and stemness.RESULTS: Low expression levels of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 were detected in the cancerous lung cells and tissues. The overexpression of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 significantly restricted the ability of cells to proliferate, produce clones, form spheres, and invade lung cancer cells, while the knockdown of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 had the opposite effect. The findings of the Western blot assessment showed that the overexpression or knockdown of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 significantly affected the expression of cluster of differentiation 44, cluster of differentiation 133, sex-determining region Y-box 2, octamer-binding transcription factor 4, and Nanog, and regulated the sphere-forming ability of cells. Additionally, the overexpression or knockdown of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 regulated the invasion ability of cells by affecting expressions of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and Vimentin.CONCLUSIONS: The poor expression, overexpression, or knockdown of lncRNA RUNX1-IT1 affects the stemness and invasion ability of lung cancer cells.
BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular complications are a major cause of death and disability in patients with diabetes mellitus, but how such complications arise is unclear.METHODS: Weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was performed on gene expression profiles from healthy controls, individuals with diabetes mellitus, and individuals with diabetes mellitus-associated coronary artery disease (DMCAD). Phenotypically related module genes were analyzed for enrichment in Gene Ontology (GO) terms and Kyoto Gene and Genome Encyclopedia (KEGG) pathways. Predicted biological functions were validated using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) and ClueGo analysis. Based on the TRRUST v2 database and hypergeometric tests, a global network was built to identify transcription factors (TFs) and downstream target genes potentially involved in DMCAD.RESULTS: WGCNA identified three modules associated with progression from diabetes mellitus to DMCAD. The module genes were significantly involved in biological processes related to interferon and viral infection, while GSEA of DMCAD samples suggested involvement in viral myocarditis, chemokine signaling and phagosomes. RUNX1 was identified as a potential TF regulating these module genes. Analysis of the global regulatory network of TFs and their targets suggested that CCL3 may be a key regulator in DMCAD.CONCLUSION: We found bioinformatic evidence that CCL3 may be a key regulator and RUNX1 a key TF in DMCAD.
p53 deficiency and Myc dysregulation are frequently associated with cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms linking these two major oncogenic events are poorly understood. Using an osteosarcoma model caused by p53 loss, we have recently shown that Runx3 aberrantly upregulates Myc via mR1, a Runx consensus site in the Myc promoter. Here, we focus on thymic lymphoma, a major tumour type caused by germline p53 deletion in mice, and examine whether the oncogenic Runx-Myc axis plays a notable role in the development of p53-deficient lymphoma. Mice lacking p53 specifically in thymocytes (LP mice) mostly succumbed to thymic lymphoma. Runx1 and Myc were upregulated in LP mouse lymphoma compared with the normal thymus. Depletion of Runx1 or Myc prolonged the lifespan of LP mice and suppressed lymphoma development. In lymphoma cells isolated from LP mice, knockdown of Runx1 led to Myc suppression, weakening their tumour forming ability in immunocompromised mice. The mR1 locus was enriched by both Runx1 and H3K27ac, an active chromatin marker. LP mice with mutated mR1 had a longer lifespan and a lower incidence of lymphoma. Treatment with AI-10-104, a Runx inhibitor, improved the survival of LP mice. These results suggest that Myc upregulation by Runx1 is a key event in p53-deficient thymic lymphoma development and provide a clinical rationale for targeting the Runx family in p53-deficient malignancies.
Diabetic retinopathy (DR) represents a major complication of diabetes, and molecular mechanisms related to vascular dysfunction, particularly endothelial dysfunction, in DR remains unclear. In the present work, we generated a DR animal model using mice and a cell model in mouse retinal microvascular endothelial cells (mRMECs) to examine the role of Trefoil factor family 1 (Tff1) in DR. Tff1 was poorly expressed in DR mice and high glucose (HG)-treated mRMECs. Overexpression of Tff1 significantly attenuated streptozotocin-induced retinal proliferation and angiogenesis in DR mice and reduced the secretion of inflammatory factors. In HG-treated mRMECs, overexpression of Tff1 remarkably reduced the proliferation and angiogenesis of mRMECs. In further experiments, we found that Tff1 was transcriptionally repressed by Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) directly, and Tff1 expression was indirectly modulated by Runx1 via the core-binding factor subunit beta (CBF-β)/nuclear factor, erythroid 2/microRNA-423-5p axis and the CBF-β/estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) axis. Moreover, Tff1 could inhibit the activation of NF-κB signaling pathway, which in turn attenuated retinal endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis. It was thus proposed that Runx1/Tff1/NF-κB axis may be a potential target for the treatment strategy of DR, and further studies are needed.
OBJECTIVE: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is the main cause of sudden death in the world. The aim of this paper was to explore the role of microRNA-18-5p (miR-18-5p) in myocardial infarction (MI) and its potential mechanism.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The expression of miRNA and protein was detected using quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis and Western blot. The level of oxidative stress of cardiomyocytes was evaluated by detecting the contents of Superoxide dismutase (SOD), Reactive oxygen species (ROS) and Malondialdehyde (MDA). Caspase-3 activity assay, flow cytometry and TUNEL staining were employed to evaluate apoptosis of myocardium. Dual-Luciferase reporter gene assay was used to prove whether miR-18-5p targeted RUNX1.RESULTS: MiR-18-5p was down-regulated in hypoxia-treated H9c2 cells. Hypoxia treatment induced oxidative stress and apoptosis of H9c2 cells. The oxidative stress of H9c2 was manifested by the decrease of SOD activity, the increase of ROS and MDA levels, and the apoptosis of H9c2 was shown by the increase of caspase-3 activity and apoptosis rate. MiR-18-5p mimic was transfected into H9c2 cells and successfully up-regulated miR-18-5p. And overexpression of miR-18-5p markedly inhibited the oxidative stress and apoptosis caused by hypoxia in H9c2 cells. Through bioinformatics analysis and Dual-Luciferase reporter gene assay, RUNX1 was proved to have binding sites for miR-18-5p. Furthermore, knocking down RUNX1 using small interfering RNA-RUNX1 (siR-RUNX1) significantly protected H9c2 cells from oxidative stress and apoptosis.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-18-5p expression was decreased in hypoxia-treated H9c2 cells. Overexpression of miR-18-5p alleviated hypoxia-induced oxidative stress and apoptosis in H9c2 cells via targeting RUNX1.
BACKGROUND: Cellular dedifferentiation is a regenerative prerequisite that warrants cell cycle reentry and appropriate mitotic division during de novo formation of cardiomyocytes. In the light of our previous finding that expression of injury-responsive element, Wilms Tumor factor 1 (WT1), in pericardial adipose stromal cells (ADSC) conferred a compelling reparative activity with concomitant IL-6 upregulation, we then aim to unravel the mechanistic network that governs the process of regenerative dedifferentiation after ADSC-based therapy.METHODS AND RESULTS: WT1-expressing ADSC (eGFP:WT1) were irreversibly labeled in transgenic mice (WT1-iCre/Gt(ROSA)26Sor-eGFP) primed with myocardial infarction. EGFP:WT1 cells were enzymatically isolated from the pericardial adipose tissue and cytometrically purified (ADSCgfp+). Bulk RNA-seq revealed upregulation of cardiac-related genes and trophic factors in ADSCgfp+ subset, of which IL-6 was most abundant as compared to non-WT1 ADSC (ADSCgfp-). Injection of ADSCgfp+ subset into the infarcted hearts yielded striking structural repair and functional improvement in comparison to ADSCgfp- subset. Notably, ADSCgfp+ injection triggered significant quantity of dedifferentiated cardiomyocytes recognized as round-sharp, marginalization of sarcomeric proteins, expression of molecular signature of non-myogenic genes (Vimentin, RunX1), and proliferative markers (Ki-67, Aurora B and pH3). In the cultured neonatal cardiomyocytes, spontaneous dedifferentiation was accelerated by adding tissue extracts from the ADSC-treated hearts, which was neutralized by IL-6 antibody. Genetical lack of IL-6 in ADSC dampened cardiac dedifferentiation and reparative activity.CONCLUSIONS: Taken collectively, our results revealed a previous unappreciated effect of IL-6 on cardiac dedifferentiation and regeneration. The finding, therefore, fulfills the promise of stem cell therapy and may represent an innovative strategy in the treatment of ischemic heart disease.
BACKGROUND: Systemic mastocytosis (SM) is a rare myeloproliferative disease that results from a clonal proliferation of abnormal mast cells in one or more extra-cutaneous organs. Systemic mastocytosis with an associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN) is the second most common subgroup and is diagnosed when WHO criteria for both SM and a hematological neoplasm of non-mast cell lineage are met. The SM-AHN category as currently proposed is highly heterogeneous in terms of pathogenesis, clinical presentation, and prognosis.CASE PRESENTATION: We present the first reported case of SM-AHN associated with two hematological malignancies of different lineages, a monocytic myeloid sarcoma and a B-cell chronic lymphatic leukemia. Cytogenetic and molecular analyses revealed a distinct clonal origin of the two associated malignancies. The SM-myeloid sarcoma clone demonstrated an abnormal karyotype, trisomy 8 and del(13)(q12.3q14.3), as well as mutations in KITD816V, DNMT3A and RUNX1. The DNMT3A mutation could be detected years before disease onset, supporting its potential role as early driver of leukemogenesis. No genetic aberrations could be identified in the CLL clone, which is assumed to present coincidentally.CONCLUSIONS: This report highlights the importance of full diagnostic work-up in SM patients in whom an associated hematological malignancy is suspected. Moreover, the importance of genetic analysis is highlighted, as it provides additional insights in the underlying clonal pathogenesis of different phenotypes, can aid in risk stratification, and may help identify potential therapy targets.
Erratum in    JAMA Oncol. 2022 Mar 1;8(3):484.
ERG is a transcription factor encoded on chromosome 21q22.2 with important roles in hematopoiesis and oncogenesis of prostate cancer. ERG amplification has been identified as one of the most common recurrent events in acute myeloid leukemia with complex karyotype (AML-CK). In this study, we uncover three different modes of ERG amplification in AML-CK. Importantly, we present evidence to show that ERG amplification is distinct from intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21), a hallmark segmental amplification frequently encompassing RUNX1 and ERG in a subset of high-risk B-lymphoblastic leukemia. We also characterize the association with TP53 aberrations and other chromosomal aberrations, including chromothripsis. Lastly, we show that ERG amplification can initially emerge as subclonal events in low-grade myeloid neoplasms. These findings demonstrate that ERG amplification is a recurrent secondary driver event in AML and raise the tantalizing possibility of ERG as a therapeutic target.
Quantitative PCR-based strategies are typically effective for monitoring BCR-ABL1 transcript levels in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Additionally, some patients treated with tyrosine kinase inhibitors can experience long-term treatment-free remission after discontinuation of the inhibitor. However, this outcome hinges on effectively monitoring the patient's response to therapy. We present a patient with CML and multiple BCR-ABL1 transcripts, including a rare isoform that lacks qPCR standardization. We describe unexpected discrepancies in transcript quantification, further having an impact on clinical decision-making regarding duration of treatment. To better inform clinical practice, we suggest monitoring patients at the same testing facility to better track transcript trend.
Erythrophagocytosis (EP) is extremely rare in de novo acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). We document a rare case, which in addition, showed extensive blast vacuolization. A detailed literature review has also been incorporated with the aim of unraveling the prognostic import of our morphological observations if any. A five-year-old male presented with fever and progressive pallor for 1 month. He had hepatosplenomegaly and bicytopenia. Peripheral smear examination showed 43% blasts. Nuclear and cytoplasmic vacuolations were seen in 75% blasts and EP in 4% blasts. The blasts showed block positivity on periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain. Marrow aspirate smears showed 58% blasts displaying a similar morphology. Flow cytometry showed features of a common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (CALLA) positive B-cell ALL with aberrant, dim CD 33 expression in 53.4% of the gated blasts. Fluorescence in situ hybridization showed translocation (12; 21) (p13;q22). The patient responded well to standard induction therapy. To conclude, EP is rarely seen in de novo ALL and is associated with a favorable translocation, t(12;21).
In patients with t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML), recurrent minimal residual disease (MRD) measured by RUNX1-RUNX1T1 transcript levels can predict relapse after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). This study aimed to compare the efficacy of preemptive interferon (IFN)-α therapy and donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) in patients with t(8;21) AML following allo-HSCT. We also evaluated the appropriate method for patients with different levels of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 transcripts. In this retrospective study, consecutive patients who had high-risk t(8;21) AML and received allo-HSCT were enrolled. The inclusion criteria were as follows: (1) age ≤65 years; (2) regained MRD positive following allo-HSCT. MRD positive was defined as the loss of a ≥4.5-log reduction and/or <4.5-log reduction in the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 transcripts, and high-level, intermediate-level, and low-level MRDs were, respectively, defined as <2.5-log, 2.5-3.5-log, and 3.5-4.5-log reductions in the transcripts compared with the pretreatment baseline level. Patients with positive RUNX1-RUNX1T1 could receive preemptive IFN-α therapy or DLI, which was primarily based on donor availability and the intentions of physicians and patients. The patients received recombinant human IFN-α-2b therapy by subcutaneous injection twice a week every 4 weeks. IFN-α therapy was scheduled for six cycles or until the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 transcripts were negative for at least two consecutive tests. The rates of MRD turning negative for patients with low-level, intermediate-level, and high-level RUNX1-RUNX1T1 receiving IFN-α were 87.5%, 58.1%, and 22.2%, respectively; meanwhile, for patients with intermediate-level and high-level RUNX1-RUNX1T1 receiving DLI, the rates were 50.0% and 14.3%, respectively. For patients with low-level and intermediate-level RUNX1-RUNX1T1, the probability of overall survival at 2 years was higher in the IFN-α group than in the DLI group (87.6% vs. 55.6%; p = 0.003). For patients with high levels of RUNX1-RUNX1T1, the probability of overall survival was comparable between the IFN-α and DLI groups (53.3% vs. 83.3%; p = 0.780). Therefore, patients with low-level and intermediate-level RUNX1-RUNX1T1 could benefit more from preemptive IFN-α therapy compared with DLI. Clinical outcomes were comparable between preemptive IFN-α therapy and DLI in patients with high-level RUNX1-RUNX1T1; however, they should be further improved.
The members of the Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) superfamily are involved in several biological processes and, in particular, in the DNA damage response (DDR). The most studied members, PARP1, PARP2 and PARP3, act as sensors of DNA damages, in order to activate different intracellular repair pathways, including single-strand repair, homologous recombination, conventional and alternative non-homologous end joining. This review recapitulates the functional role of PARPs in the DDR pathways, also in relationship with the cell cycle phases, which drives our knowledge of the mechanisms of action of PARP inhibitors (PARPi), encompassing inhibition of single-strand breaks and base excision repair, PARP trapping and sensitization to antileukemia immune responses. Several studies have demonstrated a preclinical activity of the current available PARPi, olaparib, rucaparib, niraparib, veliparib and talazoparib, as single agent and/or in combination with cytotoxic, hypomethylating or targeted drugs in acute leukemia, thus encouraging the development of clinical trials. We here summarize the most recent preclinical and clinical findings and discuss the synthetic lethal interactions of PARPi in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Despite the low frequency of genomic alterations of PARP and other DDR-related genes in acute leukemia, selective vulnerabilities have been reported in several disease subgroups, along with a "BRCAness phenotype." AML carrying the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 or PML-RARA fusion genes or mutations in signaling genes (FLT3-ITD in combination with TET2 or TET2 and DNMT3A deficiency), cohesin complex members (STAG2), TP53 and BCOR as co-occurring lesions, IDH1/2 and ALL cases expressing the TCF3-HLF chimera or TET1 was highly sensitive to PARPi in preclinical studies. These data, along with the warning coming from the observation of cases of therapy-related myeloid malignancies among patients receiving PARPi for solid tumors treatment, indicate that PARPi represents a promising strategy in a personalized medicine setting. The characterization of the clonal and subclonal genetic background and of the DDR functionality is crucial to select acute leukemia patients that will likely benefit of PARPi-based therapeutic regimens.
Dietary uptake of folic acid (FA) improves cartilage regeneration. In this work, we discovered that three days of FA treatment is highly effective for promoting chondrogenic differentiation of tonsil-derived mesenchymal stem cells (TMSCs). In a three-dimensional pellet culture, the levels of typical chondrogenic biomarkers, sulfated glycosaminoglycan, proteoglycan, type II collagen (COL II), SRY box transcription factor 9 (SOX 9), cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP), and aggrecan (ACAN) increased significantly in proportion to FA concentration up to 30 μM. At the mRNA expression level, COL II, SOX 9, COMP, and ACAN increased 3.6-6.0-fold with FA treatment at 30 μM compared with the control system that did not receive FA treatment, and the levels with FA treatment were 1.6-2.5 times greater than those in the kartogenin-treated positive control system. FA treatment did not increase type I collagen α1 (COL I α1), an osteogenic biomarker which is a concern with most chondrogenic promoters. At the high FA concentration of 100 μM, significant decreases in chondrogenic biomarkers were observed, which might be related to DNA methylation. A thermogel system incorporating TMSCs and FA provided sustained release of FA over several days, similar to the FA treatment. The thermogel system confirmed the efficacy of FA in promoting chondrogenic promotion of TMSCs. The increased nuclear translocation of core-binding factor β subunit (CBFβ) and the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) expression after FA treatment, together with molecular docking studies, suggest that the chondrogenic enhancement mechanism of FA is mediated by CBFβ and RUNX1.
Pathological fibrosis contributes to progression of various diseases, for which the therapeutic options are limited. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is one such progressive and fatal interstitial fibrotic disease that is often characterized by excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins leading to stiff lung tissue and impaired gas exchange. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying IPF progression remain largely unknown. In this study, we determined the role of Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor, in the differentiation of human lung fibroblasts (HLFs) in vitro and in an animal model of bleomycin (BLM)-induced lung fibrosis. We observed that the expression of RUNX1 was significantly increased in the lungs of BLM-injected mice as compared to saline-treated mice. Furthermore, HLFs stimulated with transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) showed significantly higher RUNX1 expression at both mRNA and protein levels, and compartmentalization in the nucleus. Inhibition of RUNX1 in HLFs (using siRNA) showed a significant reduction in the differentiation of fibroblasts into myofibroblasts as evidenced by reduced expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), TGF-β and ECM proteins such as fibronectin 1 (FN1), and collagen 1A1 (COL1A1). Mechanistic studies revealed that the increased expression of RUNX1 in TGF-β-stimulated lung fibroblasts is due to enhanced mRNA stability of RUNX1 through selective interaction with the RNA-binding profibrotic protein, human antigen R (HuR). Collectively, our data demonstrate that increased expression of RUNX1 augments processes involved in lung fibrosis including the differentiation of fibroblasts into collagen-synthesizing myofibroblasts. Our study suggests that targeting RUNX1 could limit the progression of organ fibrosis in diseases characterized by abnormal collagen deposition.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Blood Diseases, Haihe Laboratory of Cell Ecosystem, Institute of Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
Hemogenic endothelial (HE) cells in the dorsal aorta undergo an endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) to form multipotent progenitors, lympho-myeloid biased progenitors (LMPs), pre-hematopoietic stem cells (pre-HSCs) and adult-repopulating HSCs. These briefly accumulate in intra-arterial hematopoietic clusters (IAHCs) before being released into the circulation. It is generally assumed that the number of IAHC cells correlates with the number of HSCs. Here, we show that changes in the number of IAHC cells, LMPs and HSCs can be uncoupled. Mutations impairing MyD88-dependent toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling decreased the number of IAHC cells and LMPs, but increased the number of HSCs in the aorta-gonad-mesonephros region of mouse embryos. TLR4-deficient embryos generated normal numbers of HE cells, but IAHC cell proliferation decreased. Loss of MyD88-dependent TLR signaling in innate immune myeloid cells had no effect on IAHC cell numbers. Instead, TLR4 deletion in endothelial cells (ECs) recapitulated the phenotype observed with germline deletion, demonstrating that MyD88-dependent TLR signaling in ECs and/or in IAHCs regulates the numbers of LMPs and HSCs.
Cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) are ubiquitous in aquatic environments and most studies have examined the potential effects of Cd or Pb alone on aquatic organisms. In the present study, chronic effects of Cd and Pb, alone and in combination, on Bufo gargarizans were investigated by exposing embryos to these contaminants throughout metamorphosis. Significant reductions in body mass and snout-to-vent length were observed in B. gargarizans at Gosner stage 42 (Gs 42) and Gs 46 exposed to a Cd/Pb mixture. Single and combined exposure with Cd and Pb induced histological alterations of the thyroid gland characterized by reduced colloid area and thickness of epithelial cells. There was a significant decrease in the maximum jump distance of froglets exposed to Cd alone and the Cd/Pb mixture, and the jumping capacity showed a positive correlation with hind limb length and tibia/fibula. Moreover, single metals and their mixture induced reduction of endochondral bone formation in B. gargarizans. Transcriptomic and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction results showed that genes involved in skeletal ossification (TRα, TRβ, Dio2, Dio3, MMP9, MMP13, Runx1, Runx2, and Runx3) were transcriptionally dysregulated by Cd and Pb exposure alone or in combination. Our results suggested that despite the low concentration tested, the Cd/Pb mixture induced more severe impacts on B. gargarizans. In addition, the Cd/Pb mixture might reduce chances of survival for B. gargarizans froglets by decreasing size at metamorphosis, impaired skeletal ossification, and reduction in jumping ability, which might result from dysregulation of genes involved in thyroid hormone action and endochondral ossification. The findings obtained could add a new dimension to understanding of the mechanisms underpinning skeletal ossification response to heavy metals in amphibians. Environ Toxicol Chem 2022;41:1228-1245. © 2022 SETAC.
The gene activity underlying cell differentiation is regulated by a diverse set of transcription factors (TFs), histone modifications, chromatin structures and more. Although definitive hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are known to emerge via endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT), how the multi-layered epigenome is sequentially unfolded in a small portion of endothelial cells (ECs) transitioning into the hematopoietic fate remains elusive. With optimized low-input itChIP-seq and Hi-C assays, we performed multi-omics dissection of the HSC ontogeny trajectory across early arterial ECs (eAECs), hemogenic endothelial cells (HECs), pre-HSCs and long-term HSCs (LT-HSCs) in mouse embryos. Interestingly, HSC regulatory regions are already pre-configurated with active histone modifications as early as eAECs, preceding chromatin looping dynamics within topologically associating domains. Chromatin looping structures between enhancers and promoters only become gradually strengthened over time. Notably, RUNX1, a master TF for hematopoiesis, enriched at half of these loops is observed early from eAECs through pre-HSCs but its enrichment further increases in HSCs. RUNX1 and co-TFs together constitute a central, progressively intensified enhancer-promoter interactions. Thus, our study provides a framework to decipher how temporal epigenomic configurations fulfill cell lineage specification during development.
Familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancies (RUNX1-familial platelet disorder [RUNX1-FPD]) is caused by heterozygous pathogenic germline variants of RUNX1. In the present study, we evaluate the applicability of transactivation assays to investigate RUNX1 variants in different regions of the protein. We studied 11 variants to independently validate transactivation assays supporting variant classification following the ClinGen Myeloid Malignancies Variant Curation Expert Panel guidelines. Variant classification is key for the translation of genetic findings. We showed that new assays need to be developed to assess C-terminal RUNX1 variants. Two variants of uncertain significance (VUS) were reclassified to likely pathogenic. Additionally, our analyses supported the (likely) pathogenic classification of 2 other variants. We demonstrated functionality of 4 VUS, but reclassification to (likely) benign was challenging and suggested the need for reevaluating current classification guidelines. Finally, clinical utility of our assays was illustrated in the context of 7 families. Our data confirmed RUNX1-FPD suspicion in 3 families with RUNX1-FPD-specific family history, whereas for 3 variants identified in RUNX1-FPD-nonspecific families, no functional defect was detected. Applying functional assays to support RUNX1 variant classification can be essential for adequate care of index patients and their relatives at risk. It facilitates translation of genetic data into personalized medicine.
AIMS: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a fatal disease without a cure. Previously, we found that transcription factor RUNX1-dependent haematopoietic transformation of endothelial progenitor cells may contribute to the pathogenesis of PAH. However, the therapeutic potential of RUNX1 inhibition to reverse established PAH remains unknown. In the current study, we aimed to determine whether RUNX1 inhibition was sufficient to reverse Sugen/hypoxia (SuHx)-induced pulmonary hypertension (PH) in rats. We also aimed to demonstrate possible mechanisms involved.METHODS AND RESULTS: We administered a small molecule specific RUNX1 inhibitor Ro5-3335 before, during, and after the development of SuHx-PH in rats to investigate its therapeutic potential. We quantified lung macrophage recruitment and activation in vivo and in vitro in the presence or absence of the RUNX1 inhibitor. We generated conditional VE-cadherin-CreERT2; ZsGreen mice for labelling adult endothelium and lineage tracing in the SuHx-PH model. We also generated conditional Cdh5-CreERT2; Runx1(flox/flox) mice to delete Runx1 gene in adult endothelium and LysM-Cre; Runx1(flox/flox) mice to delete Runx1 gene in cells of myeloid lineage, and then subjected these mice to SuHx-PH induction. RUNX1 inhibition in vivo effectively prevented the development, blocked the progression, and reversed established SuHx-induced PH in rats. RUNX1 inhibition significantly dampened lung macrophage recruitment and activation. Furthermore, lineage tracing with the inducible VE-cadherin-CreERT2; ZsGreen mice demonstrated that a RUNX1-dependent endothelial to haematopoietic transformation occurred during the development of SuHx-PH. Finally, tissue-specific deletion of Runx1 gene either in adult endothelium or in cells of myeloid lineage prevented the mice from developing SuHx-PH, suggesting that RUNX1 is required for the development of PH.CONCLUSION: By blocking RUNX1-dependent endothelial to haematopoietic transformation and pulmonary macrophage recruitment and activation, targeting RUNX1 may be as a novel treatment modality for pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Folic acid was reported to significantly improve chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells. In a similar mechanism of action, we investigated clinically approved antifolates by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as chondrogenic-promoting compounds for tonsil-derived mesenchymal stem cells. A poly(ethylene glycol)-poly(l-alanine) thermogelling system was used as a three-dimensional cell culture matrix, where stem cells and antifolates could be incorporated simultaneously during a heat-induced in situ sol-to-gel transition. The antifolates could be supplied over several days by the sustained release of the drug from the thermogel. Initially, seven antifolates were prescreened based on cell viability and expression of a typical chondrogenic biomarker of type II collagen (COL II) at the mRNA level. Then, dapsone, pralatrexate, and trimethoprim were selected as candidate compounds in the second round screening, and detailed studies were carried out on the mRNA and protein expression of various chondrogenic biomarkers including COL II, SRY box transcription factor 9, and aggrecan. Three-dimensional cultures of stem cells in the thermogel in the absence of a chondrogenic promoter compound and in the presence of kartogenin (KGN) were performed as a negative control and positive control, respectively. The chondrogenic biomarkers were significantly increased in the selected antifolate-incorporating systems compared to the negative control system, without an increase in type I collagen (an osteogenic biomarker) expression. Pralatrexate was the best compound for inducing chondrogenic differentiation of the stem cells, even better than the positive control (KGN). Nuclear translocation of the core-binding factor β subunit (CBFβ) and enhanced nuclear runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) by antifolate treatment suggested that the chondrogenesis-enhancing mechanism is mediated by CBFβ and RUNX1. An in silico modeling study confirmed the mechanism by proving the high binding affinity of pralatrexate to a target protein of filamin A compared with other antifolate candidates. To conclude, pralatrexate was rediscovered as a lead compound, and the polypeptide thermogel incorporating pralatrexate and mesenchymal stem cells can be a very effective system in promoting chondrogenic differentiation of stem cells and might be used in injectable tissue engineering for cartilage repair.
Haploinsufficiency for the erythroid-specific transcription factor KLF1 is associated with hereditary persistence of fetal hemoglobin (HPFH). Increased HbF ameliorates the symptoms of β-hemoglobinopathies and downregulation of KLF1 activity has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy. However, the feasibility of this approach has been challenged by the observation that KLF1 haploinsufficient individuals with the same KLF1 variant, within the same family, display a wide range of HbF levels. This phenotypic variability is not readily explained by co-inheritance of known HbF-modulating variants in the HBB, HBS1L-MYB and/or BCL11A loci. We studied cultured erythroid progenitors obtained from Maltese individuals in which KLF1 p.K288X carriers display HbF levels ranging between 1.3 and 12.3% of total Hb. Using a combination of gene expression analysis, chromatin accessibility assays and promoter activity tests we find that variation in expression of the wildtype KLF1 allele may explain a significant part of the variability in HbF levels observed in KLF1 haploinsufficiency. Our results have general bearing on the variable penetrance of haploinsufficiency phenotypes and on conflicting interpretations of pathogenicity of variants in other transcriptional regulators such as EP300, GATA2 and RUNX1.
Vertebral disc degenerative disease (DDD) affects millions of people worldwide and is a critical factor leading to low back and neck pain and consequent disability. Currently, no strategy has addressed curing DDD from fundamental aspects, because the pathological mechanism leading to DDD is still controversial. One possible mechanism points to the homeostatic status of extracellular matrix (ECM) anabolism, and catabolism in the disc may play a vital role in the disease's progression. If the damaged disc receives an abundant amount of cartilage, anabolic factors may stimulate the residual cells in the damaged disc to secrete the ECM and mitigate the degeneration process. To examine this hypothesis, a cartilage anabolic factor, Runx1, was expressed by mRNA through a sophisticated polyamine-based PEG-polyplex nanomicelle delivery system in the damaged disc in a rat model. The mRNA medicine and polyamine carrier have favorable safety characteristics and biocompatibility for regenerative medicine. The endocytosis of mRNA-loaded polyplex nanomicelles in vitro, mRNA delivery efficacy, hydration content, disc shrinkage, and ECM in the disc in vivo were also examined. The data revealed that the mRNA-loaded polyplex nanomicelle was promptly engulfed by cellular late endosome, then spread into the cytosol homogeneously at a rate of less than 20 min post-administration of the mRNA medicine. The mRNA expression persisted for at least 6-days post-injection in vivo. Furthermore, the Runx1 mRNA delivered by polyplex nanomicelles increased hydration content by ≈43% in the punctured disc at 4-weeks post-injection (wpi) compared with naked Runx1 mRNA administration. Meanwhile, the disc space and ECM production were also significantly ameliorated in the polyplex nanomicelle group. This study demonstrated that anabolic factor administration by polyplex nanomicelle-protected mRNA medicine, such as Runx1, plays a key role in alleviating the progress of DDD, which is an imbalance scenario of disc metabolism. This platform could be further developed as a promising strategy applied to regenerative medicine.
We investigated genome-wide DNA methylation patterns in 64 pediatric patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Based on unsupervised clustering with the 567 most variably methylated cytosine guanine dinucleotide (CpG) sites, patients were categorized into 4 clusters associated with genetic alterations. Clusters 1 and 3 were characterized by the presence of known favorable prognostic factors, such as RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion and KMT2A rearrangement with low MECOM expression, and biallelic CEBPA mutations (all 8 patients), respectively. Clusters 2 and 4 comprised patients exhibiting molecular features associated with adverse outcomes, namely internal tandem duplication of FLT3 (FLT3-ITD), partial tandem duplication of KMT2A, and high PRDM16 expression. Depending on the methylation values of the 1243 CpG sites that were significantly different between FLT3-ITD+ and FLT3-ITD- AML, patients were categorized into 3 clusters: A, B, and C. The STAT5-binding motif was most frequently found close to the 1243 CpG sites. All 8 patients with FLT3-ITD in cluster A harbored high PRDM16 expression and experienced adverse events, whereas only 1 of 7 patients with FLT3-ITD in the other clusters experienced adverse events. PRDM16 expression levels were also related to DNA methylation patterns, which were drastically changed at the cutoff value of PRDM16/ABL1 = 0.10. The assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing of AMLs supported enhanced chromatin accessibility around genomic regions, such as HOXB cluster genes, SCHIP1, and PRDM16, which were associated with DNA methylation changes in AMLs with FLT3-ITD and high PRDM16 expression. Our results suggest that DNA methylation levels at specific CpG sites are useful to support genetic alterations and gene expression patterns of patients with pediatric AML.
Childhood leukemia (CL) is undoubtedly caused by a multifactorial process with genetic as well as environmental factors playing a role. But in spite of several efforts in a variety of scientific fields, the causes of the disease and the interplay of possible risk factors are still poorly understood. To push forward the research on the causes of CL, the German Federal Office for Radiation Protection has been organizing recurring international workshops since 2008 every two to three years. In November 2019 the 6th International Workshop on the Causes of CL was held in Freising and brought together experts from diverse disciplines. The workshop was divided into two main parts focusing on genetic and environmental risk factors, respectively. Two additional special sessions addressed the influence of natural background radiation on the risk of CL and the progress in the development of mouse models used for experimental studies on acute lymphoblastic leukemia, the most common form of leukemia worldwide. The workshop presentations highlighted the role of infections as environmental risk factor for CL, specifically for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Major support comes from two mouse models, the Pax5+/- and Sca1-ETV6-RUNX1 mouse model, one of the major achievements made in the last years. Mice of both predisposed models only develop leukemia when exposed to common infections. These results emphasize the impact of gene-environment-interactions on the development of CL and warrant further investigation of such interactions - especially because genetic predisposition is detected with increasing frequency in CL. This article summarizes the workshop presentations and discusses the results in the context of the international literature.
B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is characterized by clonal expansion of immature B-lymphocytes in the bone marrow, blood, or other tissues. Chromosomal translocations have often been reported in B-ALL, which are important for its prognosis. B-ALL patients with ETV6-RUNX1 fusion have favorable outcomes, but the mechanisms remain to be clarified. In the present study, we crossed the selected WGCNA module genes and differential expression genes to obtain core genes, and random forest algorithm, a type of supervised learning analysis, was conducted to evaluate the importance of those core genes in distinguishing B-ALL samples with ETV6-RUNX2 fusion with extracting 5 genes as gene markers for ETV6-RUNX2 fusion. Moreover, we calculated the immune infiltration profiles and screened out the ETV6-RUNX2 association immune cells using the CIBERSORT algorithm. In conclusion, combined with various solid informatics methods, we depicted the underlying molecular and immune mechanism of ETV6-RUNX2 fusion and providing potential biological targets for diagnosing and treating B-ALL in the future.
BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable clonal neoplasm that usually requires long-term treatment, which may result in secondary cytopenia(s) and myeloid neoplasms. We investigated the landscape of mutations detected by NextGen sequencing (NGS) in myeloma patients with cytopenia.METHODS AND MATERIALS: MM patients (n = 196) with cytopenia(s) and NGS results were identified and divided into 4 groups: 1) patients with myeloma only and no myeloid neoplasms; 2) patients with myeloid neoplasms but no myeloma; 3) patients with concurrent myeloma and myeloid neoplasms; and 4) patients with no myeloma or myelodysplasia.RESULTS: The most frequently mutated genes were TP53, DNMT3A, TET2, ASXL1, and KRAS. TP53 mutations were predominantly found among patients with myeloid neoplasms with or without concomitant MM. SF3B1 and TET, the genes most commonly mutated in myelodysplastic syndromes, were less frequently identified among MM patients. ASXL1 mutations were more commonly associated with myeloid neoplasms, whereas KRAS and DNMT3A mutations were more closely associated with MM than myeloid neoplasms. RUNX1 mutations showed closer association with myeloid neoplasms. Fifty-eight patients harbored clonal myeloid gene mutations but no overt morphologic or cytogenetic abnormalities, of which 7 patients had myelodysplastic syndromes that was missed by the original pathologists. Thrombocytopenia appeared to be a more reliable marker than anemia or neutropenia to trigger work-up for myeloid neoplasms.CONCLUSION: NGS could greatly help with diagnosing myeloid neoplasms in MM patients with cytopenia(s). The depicted gene landscape may facilitate our daily interpretation of NextGen sequencing (NGS).
PURPOSE: To analyzed the outcome of ETV6/RUNX1-positive pediatric acute B lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) with the aim of identifying prognostic value.METHOD: A total of 2,530 pediatric patients who were diagnosed with B-ALL were classified into two groups based on the ETV6/RUNX1 status by using a retrospective cohort study method from February 28, 2008, to June 30, 2020, at 22 participating ALL centers.RESULTS: In total, 461 (18.2%) cases were ETV6/RUNX1-positive. The proportion of patients with risk factors (age <1 year or ≥10 years, WB≥50×109/L) in ETV6/RUNX1-positive group was significantly lower than that in negative group (P<0.001), while the proportion of patients with good early response (good response to prednisone, D15 MRD < 0.1%, and D33 MRD < 0.01%) in ETV6/RUNX1-positive group was higher than that in the negative group (P<0.001, 0.788 and 0.004, respectively). Multivariate analysis of 2,530 patients found that age <1 or ≥10 years, SCCLG-ALL-2016 protocol, and MLL were independent predictor of outcome but not ETV6/RUNX1. The EFS and OS of the ETV6/RUNX1-positive group were significantly higher than those of the negative group (3-year EFS: 90.11 ± 4.21% vs 82 ± 2.36%, P<0.0001, 3-year OS: 91.99 ± 3.92% vs 88.79 ± 1.87%, P=0.017). Subgroup analysis showed that chemotherapy protocol, age, prednisone response, and D15 MRD were important factors affecting the prognosis of ETV6/RUNX1-positive children.CONCLUSIONS: ETV6/RUNX1-positive pediatric ALL showed an excellent outcome but lack of independent prognostic significance in South China. However, for older patients who have the ETV6/RUNX1 fusion and slow response to therapy, to opt for more intensive treatment.
The expression profile and image observation of miRNA in serum of patients with obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome were investigated. Bioinformatics methods were used to explore the molecular mechanism of obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS)-related hypertension and explore the differentially expressed core miRNAs and regulatory factors, providing a theoretical basis for seeking molecular targets for clinical diagnosis and treatment. The miRNA datasets of patients with OSAHS and those with hypertension were downloaded from the public database to obtain differentially expressed miRNAs and explore the biological processes and pathways involved in the target genes. The core miRNAs and competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA) transcription factors (TFs) were obtained by database mining and Cytoscape network analysis. The results showed that 2,579 differentially expressed miRNAs were obtained from the GSE112093 dataset. Seven upregulated miRNAs (hsa-miR-7107-5p, hsa-miR-7110-5p, hsa-miR-595, hsa-miR-1268b, hsa-miR-3064-5p, hsa-miR-68565p, and hsa-miR-1180-3p) and one downregulated miRNA (hsa-miR-22-3p) were obtained from the GSE112093 dataset. It is proved that hsa-miR-22-3p, hsa-miR-595, hsa-miR-6856-5pKcnq1ot1, neat1, Tsix, ERG, kdm2b, and Runx1 may be involved in the pathogenesis of OSAHS-related hypertension, which provided a theoretical basis for the mechanism research and clinical treatment of OSAHS.
Genetic analysis of leukemic clones in monozygotic twins with concordant acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has proved a unique opportunity to gain insight into the molecular phylogenetics of leukemogenesis. Using whole-genome sequencing, we characterized constitutional and somatic single nucleotide variants/insertion-deletions (indels) and structural variants in a monozygotic twin pair with concordant ETV6-RUNX1+ B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL). In addition, digital PCR (dPCR) was applied to evaluate the presence of and quantify selected somatic variants at birth, diagnosis, and remission. A shared somatic complex rearrangement involving chromosomes 11, 12, and 21 with identical fusion sequences in leukemias of both twins offered direct proof of a common clonal origin. The ETV6-RUNX1 fusion detected at diagnosis was found to originate from this complex rearrangement. A shared somatic frameshift deletion in UBA2 was also identified in diagnostic samples. In addition, each leukemia independently acquired analogous deletions of 3 genes recurrently targeted in BCP-ALLs (ETV6, ATF7IP, and RAG1/RAG2), providing evidence of a convergent clonal evolution only explained by a strong concurrent selective pressure. Quantification of the UBA2 deletion by dPCR surprisingly indicated it persisted in remission. This, for the first time to our knowledge, provided evidence of a UBA2 variant preceding the well-established initiating event ETV6-RUNX1. Further, we suggest the UBA2 deletion exerted a leukemia predisposing effect and that its essential role in Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) attachment (SUMOylation), regulating nearly all physiological and pathological cellular processes such as DNA-repair by nonhomologous end joining, may hold a mechanistic explanation for the predisposition.
DOI: 10.1007/s12185-021-03269-6PMID: 34981432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Front Cell Dev Biol. 2021 Dec 16;9:812639. doi: 10.3389/fcell.2021.812639. eCollection 2021.
BACKGROUND: Few data are available exploring mutations of the colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in an all-round and systematic manner. The purpose of this study was to analyze the CSF3R mutations (CSF3Rmut) in AML with recurrent genetic abnormalities for potential synergistic pathomechanism.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively screened 1102 adult de novo AML patients with available next-generation sequencing (NGS) information on 132 genes related to hematologic disorders. The χ2, Mann-Whitney U tests were used to analyze their associations with clinicopathologic characteristics, and a propensity score matching (PSM) followed by Kaplan-Meier method was applied to measure their prognostic effects.RESULTS: Overall, CSF3Rmut were detected in 40 (3.6%) of 1102 patients with adult de novo AML. CSF3Rmut were predominantly enriched in AML with the CEBPA double mutations (CEBPAdm) (16/122, 13.1%), t(8;21) (12/186, 6.5%) and mutated RUNX1 (3/50, 6.0%), respectively. The CSF3Rmut loci and types differed according to AML subtypes, with frameshift-indels and premature stop confined in the t(8;21) AML [10/12 (83.3%)], and missense recurrently aggregated in the CEBPAdm AML [16/16 (100%)]. Cases with CSF3Rmut had a lower WBC count versus those with CSF3R wild-type (CSF3Rwt) in the t(8;21) AML cohort, with a borderline significance [median 5.45 (range 0.94-20.30) × 109/L) vs. 8.80 (range 0.96-155.00) × 109/L, P = .046]. CSF3Rmut were non-significantly associated with higher WBC counts [median 33.6 (range 6.8-287.6) × 109/L vs. 18.1 (range 1.7-196.0) × 109/L, P = .156] and significantly with lower immunophenotypic CD15 positivity [0/8 (0%) vs. 44/80 (55%), P = .009] as compared to CSF3Rwt in the CEBPAdm AML cohort. After propensity score matching followed by Kaplan-Meier analysis, CSF3Rmut cases had comparable disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) to those with CSF3Rwt (P = .607 and P = .842, respectively) in the t(8;21) AML cohort. By contrast, CSF3Rmut showed an inclination towards inferior DFS compared to CSF3Rwt in the CEBPAdm AML cohort [median DFS 19.8 (95%CI 3.1-36.5) months vs. not reached (NR), P = .086]. No significant difference was found for OS between CSF3Rmut and CSF3Rwt cases (P = .943).CONCLUSION: We concluded that CSF3Rmut were frequently enriched in patients with t(8;21) and CEBPAdm subtypes among AML, but showed divergent clinicopathologic features, mutation loci and types and differing prognostic aspects.
Although the 5q- syndrome is common in both de novo and treatment related myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and the World Health Organization defined 5q- syndrome as a specific type of MDS, it is less common in acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). Recently, it was suggested that AML with diploidy/tetraploidy and/or 5q alterations may be associated with the cryptic translocation, t(7;21)(p22;q22) resulting in RUNX1-USP42 gene fusion and this association may have been underestimated. Here, we report another case of de novo AML with cryptic t(7;21)(p22;q22) associated with a 5q deletion.
Intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21) occurs in ∼2% of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and is considered to confer a poor prognosis. The relapse risk is associated with therapy intensity, suggesting that other somatic mutations may influence iAMP21-ALL prognosis. This abnormality is characterized by multiple copies of the RUNX1 gene in chromosome 21 and appears to arise through multiple breakage-fusion bridge cycles and chromothripsis. Rob(15;21) or a ring chromosome 21 have been associated with an increased risk for iAMP21-ALL, suggesting that constitutional genetic abnormalities may also drive leukemogenesis. Here we describe homozygous deletion of the SH2B3 gene, chromothripsis of chromosome 21, and a non-Robertsonian somatic t(15;21)(q25.3;q22.1) with NTRK3 gene rearrangement in an adolescent with iAMP21-B-ALL. Molecular cytogenetic studies detected iAMP21 with aCGH analysis revealing further genomic imbalances. The RT-qPCR analysis detected elevated expression levels of RUNX1 (68-fold) and reduced expression of CDK6 (0.057-fold). Studies with constitutive cells collected from mouth swabs showed that SH2B3 biallelic deletion was a somatic alteration occurring during clonal evolution. The identification of novel secondary genetic changes was valuable to discuss sporadic iAMP21 leukemogenic mechanisms. For the first time, we show a t(15;21)(q25.3;q22.1) with NTRK3 rearrangement in an adolescent with iAMP21-ALL.
IDO2 is one of two closely related tryptophan catabolizing enzymes induced under inflammatory conditions. In contrast to the immunoregulatory role defined for IDO1 in cancer models, IDO2 has a proinflammatory function in models of autoimmunity and contact hypersensitivity. In humans, two common single-nucleotide polymorphisms have been identified that severely impair IDO2 enzymatic function, such that <25% of individuals express IDO2 with full catalytic potential. This, together with IDO2's relatively weak enzymatic activity, suggests that IDO2 may have a role outside of its function in tryptophan catabolism. To determine whether the enzymatic activity of IDO2 is required for its proinflammatory function, we used newly generated catalytically inactive IDO2 knock-in mice together with established models of contact hypersensitivity and autoimmune arthritis. Contact hypersensitivity was attenuated in catalytically inactive IDO2 knock-in mice. In contrast, induction of autoimmune arthritis was unaffected by the absence of IDO2 enzymatic activity. In pursuing this nonenzymatic IDO2 function, we identified GAPDH, Runx1, RANbp10, and Mgea5 as IDO2-binding proteins that do not interact with IDO1, implicating them as potential mediators of IDO2-specific function. Taken together, our findings identify a novel function for IDO2, independent of its tryptophan catabolizing activity, and suggest that this nonenzymatic function could involve multiple signaling pathways. These data show that the enzymatic activity of IDO2 is required only for some inflammatory immune responses and provide, to our knowledge, the first evidence of a nonenzymatic role for IDO2 in mediating autoimmune disease.
Unusual and discrepant ABO phenotypes are often due to genetic variants that lead to altered levels or activity of ABO transferases and consequently to altered expression of ABO antigens. This report describes eight genetic alterations found in 15 cases with reduced or undetectable expression of ABO antigens. Forward and reverse ABO grouping was performed by standard gel or tube methods. Adsorption-heat elution and saliva testing for H and A substances followed the AABB technical manual procedures. Genomic DNA extracted from whole blood was PCR-amplified to cover the entire ABO coding sequence, splice junctions, proximal promoter, and intron 1 enhancer. Amplification products were sequenced by next-generation or Sanger dideoxy methods, either directly or after cloning into a bacterial plasmid vector. Eight unreported alleles were found in the 15 cases analyzed. Alleles ABO*A(28+1C) and ABO*A(29-5G) harbor variants that alter the consensus sequence at the intron 1 donor and acceptor splice sites, respectively. The other alleles harbor variants that alter the consensus sequence at transcription factor-binding sites in the intron 1 enhancer: specifically, ABO*A(28+5792T), ABO*A(28+5859A), and ABO*A(28+5860G) at GATA-1 sites; ABO*B(28+5877T) and ABO*B(28+5878G) at a RUNX1 site; and ABO*A(28+5843A) at or near a C/EBP site. Molecular and serologic characterization of ABO alleles can help in their future identification and in the resolution of discrepancies. Unusual and discrepant ABO phenotypes are often due to genetic variants that lead to altered levels or activity of ABO transferases and consequently to altered expression of ABO antigens. This report describes eight genetic alterations found in 15 cases with reduced or undetectable expression of ABO antigens. Forward and reverse ABO grouping was performed by standard gel or tube methods. Adsorption-heat elution and saliva testing for H and A substances followed the AABB technical manual procedures. Genomic DNA extracted from whole blood was PCR-amplified to cover the entire ABO coding sequence, splice junctions, proximal promoter, and intron 1 enhancer. Amplification products were sequenced by next-generation or Sanger dideoxy methods, either directly or after cloning into a bacterial plasmid vector. Eight unreported alleles were found in the 15 cases analyzed. Alleles ABO*A(28+1C) and ABO*A(29–5G) harbor variants that alter the consensus sequence at the intron 1 donor and acceptor splice sites, respectively. The other alleles harbor variants that alter the consensus sequence at transcription factor–binding sites in the intron 1 enhancer: specifically, ABO*A(28+5792T), ABO*A(28+5859A), and ABO*A(28+5860G) at GATA-1 sites; ABO*B(28+5877T) and ABO*B(28+5878G) at a RUNX1 site; and ABO*A(28+5843A) at or near a C/EBP site. Molecular and serologic characterization of ABO alleles can help in their future identification and in the resolution of discrepancies.
Author information:(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Institute of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University, Nantong 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Clinical College, Medical School of Nantong University, Nantong 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, Clinical Allergy Center, The First Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical University, International Center for Allergy Research, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing 210029, China.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is an essential regulator of normal hematopoiesis. Its dysfunction, caused by either fusions or mutations, is frequently reported in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, RUNX1 mutations have been largely under-explored compared with RUNX1 fusions mainly due to their elusive genetic characteristics. Here, based on 1741 patients with AML, we report a unique expression pattern associated with RUNX1 mutations in AML. This expression pattern was coordinated by target repression and promoter hypermethylation. We first reanalyzed a joint AML cohort that consisted of three public cohorts and found that RUNX1 mutations were mainly distributed in the Runt domain and almost mutually exclusive with NPM1 mutations. Then, based on RNA-seq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas AML cohort, we developed a 300-gene signature that significantly distinguished the patients with RUNX1 mutations from those with other AML subtypes. Furthermore, we explored the mechanisms underlying this signature from the transcriptional and epigenetic levels. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing data, we found that RUNX1 target genes tended to be repressed in patients with RUNX1 mutations. Through the integration of DNA methylation array data, we illustrated that hypermethylation on the promoter regions of RUNX1-regulated genes also contributed to dysregulation in RUNX1-mutated AML. This study revealed the distinct gene expression pattern of RUNX1 mutations and the underlying mechanisms in AML development.
Runt‑related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), which is also known as acute myeloid leukemia 1 (AML1), has been frequently found with genomic aberrations in human leukemia. RUNX1 encodes a transcription factor that can regulate the expression of hematopoietic genes. In addition, tumor necrosis factor‑related apoptosis‑inducing ligand (TRAIL) performs an important function for malignant tumors in immune surveillance. However, the regulatory mechanism of TRAIL expression remain to be fully elucidated. In the present study, tetradecanoylphorbol 13‑acetate‑treated megakaryocytic differentiated K562 cells was used to examine the effect of RUNX1 on TRAIL expression. Luciferase assay series of TRAIL promoters for the cells co‑transfected with RUNX1 and core‑binding factor β (CBFβ) expression vectors were performed to evaluate the nature of TRAIL transcriptional regulation. Electrophoresis mobility shift assay of the RUNX1 consensus sequence of the TRAIL promoter with recombinant RUNX1 and CBFβ proteins was also performed. BloodSpot database analysis for TRAIL expression in patients with acute myeloid leukemia were performed. The expression of TRAIL, its receptor Death receptor 4 and 5 and RUNX1 in K562 cells transfected with the RUNX1 expression vector and RUNX1 siRNA were evaluated by reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR (RT‑qPCR). TRAIL and RUNX1‑ETO expression was also measured in Kasumi‑1 cells transfected with RUNX1‑ETO siRNA and in KG‑1 cells transfected with RUNX1‑ETO expression plasmid, both by RT‑qPCR. Cell counting, lactate dehydrogenase assay and cell cycle analysis by flow cytometry were performed on Kasumi‑1, KG‑1, SKNO‑1 and K562 cells treated with TRAIL and HDAC inhibitors sodium butyrate or valproic acid. The present study demonstrated that RUNX1 is a transcriptional regulator of TRAIL. It was initially found that the induction of TRAIL expression following the megakaryocytic differentiation of human leukemia cells was RUNX1‑dependent. Subsequently, overexpression of RUNX1 was found to increase TRAIL mRNA expression by activating its promoter activity. Additional analyses revealed that RUNX1 regulated the expression of TRAIL in an indirect manner, because RUNX1 retained its ability to activate this promoter following the mutation of all possible RUNX1 consensus sites. Furthermore, TRAIL expression was reduced in leukemia cells carrying the t(8;21) translocation, where the RUNX1‑ETO chimeric protein interfere with normal RUNX1 function. Exogenous treatment of recombinant TRAIL proteins was found to induce leukemia cell death. To conclude, the present study provided a novel mechanism, whereby TRAIL is a target gene of RUNX1 and TRAIL expression was inhibited by RUNX1‑ETO. These results suggest that TRAIL is a promising agent for the clinical treatment of t(8;21) AML.
Despite recent discoveries and therapeutic advances in aggressive myeloid neoplasms, there remains a pressing need for improved therapies. For instance, in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), while most patients achieve a complete remission with conventional chemotherapy or the combination of a hypomethylating agent and venetoclax, de novo or acquired drug resistance often presents an insurmountable challenge, especially in older patients. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes, PARP1 and PARP2, are involved in detecting DNA damage and repairing it through multiple pathways, including base excision repair, single-strand break repair, and double-strand break repair. In the context of AML, PARP inhibitors (PARPi) could potentially exploit the frequently dysfunctional DNA repair pathways that, similar to deficiencies in homologous recombination in BRCA-mutant disease, set the stage for cell killing. PARPi appear to be especially effective in AML with certain gene rearrangements and molecular characteristics (RUNX1-RUNX1T1 and PML-RARA fusions, FLT3- and IDH1-mutated). In addition, PARPi can enhance the efficacy of other agents, particularly alkylating agents, TOP1 poisons, and hypomethylating agents, that induce lesions ordinarily repaired via PARP1-dependent mechanisms. Conversely, emerging reports suggest that long-term treatment with PARPi for solid tumors is associated with an increased incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and AML. Here, we (i) review the pre-clinical and clinical data on the role of PARPi, specifically olaparib, talazoparib, and veliparib, in aggressive myeloid neoplasms and (ii) discuss the reported risk of MDS/AML with PARPi, especially as the indications for PARPi use expand to include patients with potentially curable cancer.
For many years, immortalized tumor cell lines have been used as reliable tools to understand the function of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. Today, we know that tumors can comprise subclones with common and with subclone-specific genetic alterations. We sequenced DNA and RNA of sequential sister cell lines obtained from patients with pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia at different phases of the disease. All five pairs of cell lines carry alterations that are typical for this disease: loss of tumor suppressors (CDKN2A, CDKN2B), expression of fusion genes (ETV6-RUNX1, BCR-ABL1, MEF2D-BCL9) or of genes targeted by point mutations (KRAS A146T, NRAS G12C, PAX5 R38H). MEF2D-BCL9 and PAX R38H mutations in cell lines have hitherto been undescribed, suggesting that YCUB-4 (MEF2D-BCL9), PC-53 (PAX R38H) and their sister cell lines will be useful models to elucidate the function of these genes. All aberrations mentioned above occur in both sister cell lines, demonstrating that the sisters derive from a common ancestor. However, we also found mutations that are specific for one sister cell line only, pointing to individual subclones of the primary tumor as originating cells. Our data show that sequential sister cell lines can be used to study the clonal development of tumors and to elucidate the function of common and clone-specific mutations.
Acute leukemia with ambiguous lineage (ALAL) is a rare and highly aggressive malignancy with limited molecular characterization and therapeutic recommendations. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed 1635 acute leukemia cases in our center from January 2012 to June 2018. The diagnose of ALAL was based on either EGIL or 2016 WHO criteria, a total of 39 patients were included. Four patients diagnosed as acute undifferentiated leukemia (AUL) by both classification systems. Among the patients underwent high-throughput sequencing, 89.5% were detected at least one mutation and the median number of gene mutation was 3 (0-8) per sample. The most frequently mutated genes were NRAS (4, 21%), CEBPA (4, 21%), JAK3 (3, 16%), RUNX1 (3, 16%). The mutations detected in mixed-phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) enriched in genes related to genomic stability and transcriptional regulation; while AUL cases frequently mutated in genes involved in signaling pathway. The survival analysis strongly suggested that mutation burden may play important roles to predict the clinical outcomes of ALAL. In addition, the patients excluded by WHO criteria had even worse clinical outcome than those included. The association of the genetic complexity of blast cells with the clinical outcomes and rationality of the diagnostic criteria of WHO system need to be evaluated by more large-scale prospective clinical studies.
The molecular hallmark of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is characterized by recurrent, prognostic genetic alterations, many of which are cryptic by conventional cytogenetics. RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful next-generation sequencing technology that can simultaneously identify cryptic gene rearrangements, sequence mutations and gene expression profiles in a single assay. We examined the feasibility and utility of incorporating RNA-seq into a prospective multicenter phase 3 clinical trial for children with newly diagnosed ALL. The Dana-Farber Cancer Institute ALL Consortium Protocol 16-001 enrolled 173 patients with ALL who consented to optional studies and had samples available for RNA-seq. RNA-seq identified at least 1 alteration in 157 patients (91%). Fusion detection was 100% concordant with results obtained from conventional cytogenetic analyses. An additional 56 gene fusions were identified by RNA-seq, many of which confer prognostic or therapeutic significance. Gene expression profiling enabled further molecular classification into the following B-cell ALL (B-ALL) subgroups: high hyperdiploid (n = 36), ETV6-RUNX1/-like (n = 31), TCF3-PBX1 (n = 7), KMT2A-rearranged (KMT2A-R; n = 5), intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 (iAMP21) (n = 1), hypodiploid (n = 1), Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)-positive/Ph-like (n = 16), DUX4-R (n = 11), PAX5 alterations (PAX5 alt; n = 11), PAX5 P80R (n = 1), ZNF384-R (n = 4), NUTM1-R (n = 1), MEF2D-R (n = 1), and others (n = 10). RNA-seq identified 141 nonsynonymous mutations in 93 patients (54%); the most frequent were RAS-MAPK pathway mutations. Among 79 patients with both low-density array and RNA-seq data for the Philadelphia chromosome-like gene signature prediction, results were concordant in 74 patients (94%). In conclusion, RNA-seq identified several clinically relevant genetic alterations not detected by conventional methods, which supports the integration of this technology into front-line pediatric ALL trials. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT03020030.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The Runx family genes (Runx1, Runx2, Runx3, and Cbfb) are important transcriptional regulators in the development of various tissues. We herein highlight the roles of the Runx family genes in morphogenesis in the craniofacial regions and in the pathogenesis of congenital morphological problems in these regions.RECENT FINDINGS: A recent analysis using conditional Runx mutant animals and a human genetic study identified the novel roles of Runx genes in the development of the tooth, salivary glands, and the palate. In an animal study, Runx1/Cbfb signaling was found to regulate the Lgr5 expression and maintain the stem cells in the dental epithelium in the growing incisors. Aberrant Runx1/Cbfb signaling induced male-specific involution of the convoluted granular cell differentiation of the submandibular gland. In palatogenesis, Runx1/Cbfb signaling regulated the Tgfb3 expression in the fusing palatal epithelium through Stat3 activation. The combination of a human genetic study and a phenotype analysis of mutant animals revealed the various roles of Runx genes in the development of the tooth, palate, and salivary glands. Runx genes have functional redundancy in various tissues, which still hinder the roles of Runx genes in morphogenesis. Future studies may reveal the novel roles of Runx signaling.
BACKGROUND: Indian Hedgehog (IHH), an important cell signaling protein, plays a key regulatory role in development of cartilage and chondrogenesis. Earlier studies have shown that heterozygous missense mutations in IHH gene may cause brachydactyly type A1 (BDA1), an autosomal dominant inheritance disease characterized by apparent shortness or absence of the middle phalanges of all digits. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been found to be significant post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and significantly influence the process of bone-development. Therefore, it is possible that miRNAs are involved in the mechanism underlying the development of BDA1. However, the relationship between miRNAs and the pathogenesis of BDA1 remains unclear.METHODS: In this study, we used microarray-based miRNA profiling to investigate the role of miRNAs in BDA1 by characterization of differentially expressed miRNAs in C3H10T1/2 cell line induced by wild type (WT) and p.E95K mutant (MT) IHH signaling.RESULTS: Our results identified 6 differentially expressed miRNAs between WT and control (CT) group and 5 differentially expressed miRNAs between MT and CT groups. In particular, miR-135a-1-3p was found to be a significantly differentially expressed miRNA between WT and CT group. Results of dual-luciferase reporter gene experiment successfully discovered Hoxd10 was one of the target gene of miR-135a-1-3p. Additionally, our pathway analysis revealed that the targets of these miRNAs of interest were highly involved with Runx1/2, Notch and collagen-related pathways.CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our findings provided important clue for future study of the process of miRNA-regulation in IHH signaling and novel insights into the regulatory role of miRNA in pathogenesis of BDA1.
The formation of the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion protein, resulting from the t(8;21) translocation, is considered to be one of the initiating events of t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, the mechanisms of the oncogenic mechanism of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 remain unclear. In this study, we found that RUNX1-RUNX1T1 triggers the heterochromatic silencing of UBXN8 by recognizing the RUNX1-binding sites and recruiting chromatin-remodeling enzymes to the UBXN8 promoter region. Decitabine, a specific inhibitor of DNA methylation, upregulated the expression of UBXN8 in RUNX1-RUNX1T1+ AML cell lines. Overexpression of UBXN8 inhibited the proliferation and colony-forming ability of and promoted cell cycle arrest in t(8;21) AML cell lines. Enhancing UBXN8 levels can significantly inhibit tumor proliferation and promote the differentiation of RUNX1-RUNX1T1+ cells in vivo. In conclusion, our results indicated that epigenetic silencing of UBXN8 via methylation of its promoter region mediated by the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion protein contributes to the leukemogenesis of t(8;21) AML and that UBXN8 targeting may be a potential therapeutic strategy for t(8;21) AML.
Vascular calcification (VC), in which vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) undergo differentiation and osteogenic transition, is a common complication of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Recent findings show that nuclear factor-erythroid-2-related factor 2 (NRF2) is an evolutionarily conserved antioxidant and beneficial in preventing vascular senescence and calcification. The roles of NRF2 in the initiation and progression of VC in CKD still need further investigation. CKD-associated VC model rats exhibited significant upregulation of NRF2, NAD(P)H: quinone oxidoreductase-1 (NQO1), osteogenic markers such as alkaline phosphatase (ALP), runt-related transcription factor-2 (RUNX2) and osteopontin (OPN), and β-catenin compared to CKD rats. Immunohistochemistry further verified these results. In addition, rat aortic VSMCs were isolated and subjected to four treatments: normal control, phosphorus-induced (Pi), Pi + NRF2 activator DMF, and Pi + NRF2 inhibitor ML385. The reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation, malondialdehyde (MDA) content, and calcium deposition of the four treatments were determined. The mRNA and protein expression levels of NRF2, NQO1, and haem oxygenase 1 (HO1) and the osteogenic markers ALP, Runx1, OPN, bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2), and β-catenin were quantified by RT-PCR and western blotting. VSMC apoptosis was calculated by flow cytometry. The in vitro results suggested that intracellular oxidative stress and calcification were closely associated with NRF2 activity and that the activation of NRF2 could significantly suppress osteogenic transition and apoptosis in VSMCs. Thus, this study indicated that the NRF2-related antioxidant pathway can positively respond to and protect against the initiation and progression of VC in CKD by reducing oxidative stress. This study may contribute insights facilitating the application of the NRF2 antioxidative system as a therapeutic treatment for vascular diseases such as CKD.
BACKGROUND: Reduction of blood group ABO antigens on red blood cells (RBCs) is well known in patients with leukemias, and this reduction of ABO expression is strongly associated with DNA methylation of the ABO promoter. Previously, we reported a two-nucleotide deletion in RUNX1 encoding an abnormally elongated protein lacking the trans-activation domain in a patient with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) showing A-antigen loss on RBCs. This prompted us to investigate the underlying mechanism responsible for A-antigen reduction on RBCs in another patient with MDS.STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Screening of somatic mutations was carried out using a targeted sequencing panel with genomic DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells from the patient and eleven MDS controls without A- or B-antigen loss. DNA methylation of the ABO promoter was examined by bisulfite genomic sequencing. Transient transfection assays were performed for functional evaluation of mutations.RESULTS: Screening of somatic mutations showed missense mutations in RUNX1 and GATA2 in the patient, while no mutation was found in exons of those genes in the controls. There was no significant difference in ABO promoter methylation between the patient and the controls. Transient transfection experiments into COS-7 and K562 cells suggested that the amino acid substitutions encoded by those mutations reduced or lost the trans-activation potential of the ABO expression.CONCLUSION: Considering the discrepancy between the variant frequencies of these mutations and the ratios of the RBCs with A-antigens loss, the antigen reduction might be associated with these somatic mutations and hypermethylation of the ABO promoter.
Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) emerge during development from the vascular wall of the main embryonic arteries. The onset of circulation triggers several processes that provide critical external factors for HSC generation. Nevertheless, it is not fully understood how and when the onset of circulation affects HSC emergence. Here we show that in Ncx1-/- mouse embryos devoid of circulation the HSC lineage develops until the phenotypic pro-HSC stage. However, these cells reside in an abnormal microenvironment, fail to activate the hematopoietic program downstream of Runx1, and are functionally impaired. Single-cell transcriptomics shows that during the endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition, Ncx1-/- cells fail to undergo a glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation metabolic switch present in wild-type cells. Interestingly, experimental activation of glycolysis results in decreased intraembryonic hematopoiesis. Our results suggest that the onset of circulation triggers metabolic changes that allow HSC generation to proceed.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are subpopulations in the malignant tumors that show self-renewal and multilineage differentiation into tumor microenvironment components that drive tumor growth and heterogeneity. In previous studies, our group succeeded in producing a CSC model by treating mouse induced pluripotent stem cells. In the current study, we investigated the potential of CSC differentiation into blood cells under chemical hypoxic conditions using CoCl2. CSCs and miPS-LLCcm cells were cultured for 1 to 7 days in the presence of CoCl2, and the expression of VEGFR1/2, Runx1, c-kit, CD31, CD34, and TER-119 was assessed by RT-qPCR, Western blotting and flow cytometry together with Wright-Giemsa staining and immunocytochemistry. CoCl2 induced significant accumulation of HIF-1α changing the morphology of miPS-LLCcm cells while the morphological change was apparently not related to differentiation. The expression of VEGFR2 and CD31 was suppressed while Runx1 expression was upregulated. The population with hematopoietic markers CD34+ and c-kit+ was immunologically detected in the presence of CoCl2. Additionally, high expression of CD34 and, a marker for erythroblasts, TER-119, was observed. Therefore, CSCs were suggested to differentiate into erythroblasts and erythrocytes under hypoxia. This differentiation potential of CSCs could provide new insight into the tumor microenvironment elucidating tumor heterogenicity.
The emergence of tyrosine kinase inhibitors as part of a front-line treatment has greatly improved the clinical outcome of the patients with Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). However, a portion of them still become refractory to the therapy mainly through acquiring mutations in the BCR-ABL1 gene, necessitating a novel strategy to treat tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)-resistant Ph+ ALL cases. In this report, we show evidence that RUNX1 transcription factor stringently controls the expression of BCR-ABL1, which can strategically be targeted by our novel RUNX inhibitor, Chb-M'. Through a series of in vitro experiments, we identified that RUNX1 binds to the promoter of BCR and directly transactivates BCR-ABL1 expression in Ph+ ALL cell lines. These cells showed significantly reduced expression of BCR-ABL1 with suppressed proliferation upon RUNX1 knockdown. Moreover, treatment with Chb-M' consistently downregulated the expression of BCR-ABL1 in these cells and this drug was highly effective even in an imatinib-resistant Ph+ ALL cell line. In good agreement with these findings, forced expression of BCR-ABL1 in these cells conferred relative resistance to Chb-M'. In addition, in vivo experiments with the Ph+ ALL patient-derived xenograft cells showed similar results. In summary, targeting RUNX1 therapeutically in Ph+ ALL cells may lead to overcoming TKI resistance through the transcriptional regulation of BCR-ABL1. Chb-M' could be a novel drug for patients with TKI-resistant refractory Ph+ ALL.
A decreased percentage of CD177pos neutrophils is frequently present in MDS and AML and is a useful flow cytometry (FCM) marker for the identification of MDS. The underlying mechanism leading to the low percentage of CD177pos neutrophils in MDS has not been explained. The aim of this study was to identify whether specific somatic mutations in myeloid neoplasms are associated with the low percentage of CD177pos neutrophils. 507 myeloid neoplasms with one or more pathogenic molecular abnormality identified by NGS and in which CD177 expression was assessed were evaluated. Correlation with CD177 expression was determined for 39 variables (including genes mutated, diagnostic groups and gender) using a 40 % cutoff level for low CD177 expression. In multivariate analysis mutations involving NPM1 (OD 0.26), RUNX1 (OD 0.39), TET2 (OD 0.58), and U2AF1 S34F (OD 0.25) were associated with low percentage of CD177pos neutrophils when all cases were evaluated. JAK2 (OD 2.5) alteration was associated with increased percentage of CD177pos neutrophils. Differences were noted between diagnostic subgroups with no single mutation associated with decreased CD177pos neutrophils in MDS and CCUS. The findings demonstrate an association between the percentage of CD177pos neutrophils and somatically acquired mutations involving several genes.
Glioblastoma multiform (GBM) is the most frequent type of malignant brain tumor with a poor prognosis. After optimal surgery, radiotherapy plus temozolomide (TMZ) is the standard treatment for GBM patients. However, the development of TMZ resistance limits its efficacy in GBM management. Runt Related Transcription Factor 1 (RUNX1) and microRNAs have been implicated in drug resistance of TMZ in GBM. In this study, we revealed the underlying mechanism of TMZ resistance and identified miR-128-3p/RUNX1 axis as a novel target for TMZ resistance in GBM. RUNX1 expression was significantly upregulated in GBM tissues as compared to normal tissues, and its expression was even higher in recurrent GBM tissues and TMZ-resistant GBM cells. RUNX1 depletion inhibited the viability, proliferation, migration, invasion and TMZ resistance of GBM cells, which could be rescued by RUNX1 overexpression. We further identified miR-128-3p as a tumor-suppressor whose overexpression restored the sensitivity of TMZ in GBM cells. miR-128-3p negatively regulated RUNX1 and subsequently downregulated multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1). Together, the present study indicates that RUNX1 confers TMZ resistance in GBM by upregulating MRP1, which is negatively regulated by miR-128-3p. Targeting miR-128-3p/RUNX1/MRP1 axis provides a potential strategy to overcome TMZ resistance in GBM.
Regeneration of functional B lymphopoiesis from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) is challenging, and reliable methods have not been developed. Here, we unveiled the guiding role of three essential factors, Lhx2, Hoxa9, and Runx1, the simultaneous expression of which preferentially drives B lineage fate commitment and in vivo B lymphopoiesis using PSCs as a cell source. In the presence of Lhx2, Hoxa9, and Runx1 expression, PSC-derived induced hematopoietic progenitors (iHPCs) immediately gave rise to pro/pre-B cells in recipient bone marrow, which were able to further differentiate into entire B cell lineages, including innate B-1a, B-1b, and marginal zone B cells, as well as adaptive follicular B cells. In particular, the regenerative B cells produced adaptive humoral immune responses, sustained antigen-specific antibody production, and formed immune memory in response to antigen challenges. The regenerative B cells showed natural B cell development patterns of immunoglobulin chain switching and hypermutation via cross-talk with host T follicular helper cells, which eventually formed T cell-dependent humoral responses. This study exhibits de novo evidence that B lymphopoiesis can be regenerated from PSCs via an HSC-independent approach, which provides insights into treating B cell-related deficiencies using PSCs as an unlimited cell resource.
Author information:(1)Hematologic Disease Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University; Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Research Institute of Hematology, Urumqi 830061, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China.(2)Hematologic Disease Center, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University; Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region Research Institute of Hematology, Urumqi 830061, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, China,E-mail: 13579876416@163.com.
FoxO transcription factors (FoxOs) have recently been shown to protect against chondrocyte dysfunction and modulate cartilage homeostasis in osteoarthritis. The mechanism underlying of FoxOs regulate chondrocyte differentiation remains unknown. Runt related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) mediated both chondrocyte and osteoblast differentiation. Our data showed that FoxO3a and RUNX1 are co-expressed in ATDC5 cells and undifferentiated mesenchyme cells and have similar high levels in chondrocytes undergoing transition from proliferation to hypertrophy. Overexpression of FoxO3a in ATDC5 cells or mouse mesenchymal cells resulted in a potent induction of the chondrocyte differentiation markers. Knockdown FoxO3a or RUNX1 potently inhibits the expressions of chondrocyte differentiation markers, including Sox9, Aggrecan, Col2, and hypertrophic chondrocyte markers including RUNX2, ColX, MMP13 and ADAMTs-5 in ATDC5 cells. Co-immunoprecipitation showed that FoxO3a binds the transcriptional regulator RUNX1. Immunohistochemistry showed that FoxO3a and RUNX1 are highly co-expressed in the proliferative chondrocytes of the growth plates in the hind limbs of newborn mice. Collectively, we revealed that FoxO3a cooperated with RUNX1 promoted chondrocyte differentiation through enhancing both early chondrogenesis and terminal hypertrophic of the chondrogenic progenitor cells, indicating FoxO3a interacting with RUNX1 may be a therapeutic target for the treatment of osteoarthritis and other bone diseases.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are characterized by heterogeneous biological and clinical characteristics, leading to variable outcomes. The availability of sophisticated platforms of genome sequencing allowed the discovery of recurrently mutated genes, which have led to a new era in MDS. This is reflected by the 2016 update of the World Health Organization classification, in which the criteria to define MDS with ringed sideroblasts include the presence of SF3B1 mutations. Further, the detection of somatic mutations in myeloid genes at high variant allele frequency guides the diagnostic algorithm in cases with cytopenias, unclear dysplastic changes, and normal karyotypes, supporting MDS over alternative diagnoses. SF3B1 mutations have been shown to play a positive prognostic role, while mutations in ASXL1, EZH2, RUNX1, and TP53 have been associated with a dismal prognosis. This is particularly relevant in lower- and intermediate-risk disease, in which a higher number of mutations and/or the presence of "unfavorable" somatic mutations may support the use of disease-modifying treatments. In the near future, the incorporation of mutation profiles in currently used prognostication systems, also taking into consideration the classical patient clinical variables (including age and comorbidities), will support a more precise disease stratification, eg, the assignment to targeted treatment approaches or to allogeneic stem cell transplantation in younger patients.
Runt-related transcription factor-1 (Runx1) is required for chondrocyte-to-osteoblast lineage commitment by enhancing both chondrogenesis and osteogenesis during vertebrate development. However, the potential role of Runx1 in joint diseases is not well known. In the current study, we aimed to explore the role of Runx1 in osteoarthritis induced by anterior cruciate ligament transaction (ACLT) surgery. We showed that chondrocyte-specific Runx1 knockout (Runx1f/fCol2a1-Cre) aggravated cartilage destruction by accelerating the loss of proteoglycan and collagen II in early osteoarthritis. Moreover, we observed thinning and ossification of the growth plate, a decrease in chondrocyte proliferative capacity and the loss of bone matrix around the growth plate in late osteoarthritis. We overexpressed Runx1 by adeno-associated virus (AAV) in articular cartilage and identified its protective effect by slowing the destruction of osteoarthritis in cartilage in early osteoarthritis and alleviating the pathological progression of growth plate cartilage in late osteoarthritis. ChIP-seq analysis identified new targets that interacted with Runx1 in cartilage pathology, and we confirmed the direct interactions of these factors with Runx1 by ChIP-qPCR. This study helps us to understand the function of Runx1 in osteoarthritis and provides new clues for targeted osteoarthritis therapy.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Apr 7;139(14):2093-2094.
Platelet-derived growth factor receptor B (PDGFRB) gene rearrangements define a unique subgroup of myeloid and lymphoid neoplasms frequently associated with eosinophilia and characterized by high sensitivity to tyrosine kinase inhibition. To date, various PDGFRB/5q32 rearrangements, involving at least 40 fusion partners, have been reported. However, information on genomic and clinical features accompanying rearrangements of PDGFRB is still scarce. Here, we characterized a series of 14 cases with a myeloid neoplasm using cytogenetic, single nucleotide polymorphism array, and next-generation sequencing. We identified nine PDGFRB translocation partners, including the KAZN gene at 1p36.21 as a novel partner in a previously undescribed t(1;5)(p36;q33) chromosome change. In all cases, the PDGFRB recombination was the sole cytogenetic abnormality underlying the phenotype. Acquired somatic variants were mainly found in clinically aggressive diseases and involved epigenetic genes (TET2, DNMT3A, ASXL1), transcription factors (RUNX1 and CEBPA), and signaling modulators (HRAS). By using both cytogenetic and nested PCR monitoring to evaluate response to imatinib, we found that, in non-AML cases, a low dosage (100-200 mg) is sufficient to induce and maintain longstanding hematological, cytogenetic, and molecular remissions.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Advancements in the next-generation sequencing technologies have identified rare transcripts of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) in the genome of cancers, including in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The purpose of this review is to highlight the contribution of lncRNAs in AML pathogenesis, prognosis, and chemoresistance.RECENT FINDINGS: Several studies have recently reported that deregulated lncRNAs are novel key players in the development of AML and are associated with AML pathophysiology and may serve as prognostic indicators. A few aberrantly expressed lncRNAs that correlated with the recurrent genetic mutations in AML such as NPM1 and RUNX1 have recently been characterized. Moreover, a few lncRNAs in MLL-rearranged leukemia have been described. Additionally, the involvement of lncRNAs in AML chemoresistance has been postulated.SUMMARY: Investigating the functional roles of the noncoding regions including lncRNAs, may provide novel insights into the pathophysiology, refine the prognostic schema, and provide novel therapeutic treatment strategies in AML.
Loss of function of tuberous sclerosis complex 1 or 2 (TSC1 or TSC2) leads to the activation of mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1). Hyperactivated mTORC1 plays a critical role in tumor growth, but the underlying mechanism is still not completely elucidated. Here, by analyzing Tsc1- or Tsc2-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts, rat Tsc2-null ELT3 cells, and human cancer cells, we present evidence for the involvement of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) as a downstream target of mTORC1 in tumor growth. We show that mTORC1 leads to increased EGFR expression through upregulation of runt-related transcriptional factor 1 (RUNX1). Knockdown of EGFR impairs proliferation and tumoral growth of Tsc-deficient cells, while overexpression of EGFR promotes the proliferation of the control cells. Moreover, the mTOR signaling pathway has been shown to be positively correlated with EGFR in human cancers. In addition, we demonstrated that EGFR enhances cell growth through activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). We conclude that activation of the RUNX1/EGFR/STAT3 signaling pathway contributes to tumorigenesis caused by hyperactivated mTORC1 and should be targeted for the treatment of mTORC1-related tumors, particularly TSC.
The Hippo-YAP signaling pathway serves roles in cell proliferation, stem cell renewal/maintenance, differentiation and apoptosis. Many of its functions are central to early development, adult tissue repair/regeneration and not surprisingly, tumorigenesis and metastasis. The Hippo pathway represses the activity of YAP and paralog TAZ by modulating cell proliferation and promoting differentiation to maintain tissue homeostasis and proper organ size. Similarly, master regulators of development RUNX transcription factors have been shown to play critical roles in proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and cell fate determination. In this review, we discuss the multiple interactions of RUNX with the Hippo-YAP pathway, their shared collaborators in Wnt, TGFβ, MYC and RB pathways, and their overlapping functions in development and tumorigenesis.
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is often driven by chromosome translocations that result in recurrent and well-studied gene fusions. Currently, fluorescent in situ hybridization probes are used to detect candidate translocations in bone marrow samples from B-ALL patients. Recently Hi-C, a sequencing-based technique originally designed to reconstruct the three-dimensional architecture of the nuclear genome, was shown to effectively recognize structural variants. Here, we demonstrate that Hi-C can be used as a genome-wide assay to detect translocations and other structural variants of potential clinical interest. Structural variants were identified in both bone marrow and peripheral blood samples, including an ETV6-RUNX1 translocation present in one pediatric B-ALL patient. Our report provides proof of principle that Hi-C could be an effective strategy to globally detect driver structural variants in B-ALL peripheral blood specimens, reducing the need for invasive bone marrow biopsies and candidate-based clinical tests.
INTRODUCTION: The colony-stimulating factor 3 receptor (CSF3R) controls the proliferation of myeloid progenitors and differentiation into neutrophils. However, the clinical features and prognostic significance of CSF3R mutations in primary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients are still unclear.METHODS: 158 newly diagnosed AML patients were retrospectively evaluated in our study. Amplicon-based next-generation sequencing (NGS) and multiplex-nested reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to investigate the 34 genes and 43 fusion genes associated with leukemia. In addition, clinical features, mutation incidence, and survival outcomes were compared between patients with CSF3R mutation and patients with wild-type CSF3R.RESULTS: In our study, CSF3R mutations were found in 7.6% (12/158) cases. The membrane-proximal amino acid substitution T618I (58.3%) was the most frequent mutation. CSF3R mutations were associated with higher WBC counts (P = .035). CEBPA mutation, TET2 mutation, and RUNX1-RUNX1T1 translocation were the most common co-mutations of CSF3R. The CSF3R gene was mutually exclusive with signal transduction genes (P = .029), while positively associated with TET2 mutations (P = .014). CSF3R mutations had no effect on CR1 (P = .935), R (P = .625) and OS (P = .1172). Patients with CSF3R mutations had a worse DFS (P = .0352) than those with wild-type CSF3R. Multivariate survival analysis showed that CSF3R mutation was an independent risk factor for DFS of primary AML patients (HR=2.048, 95%CI: 1.006-4.170, P = .048).CONCLUSION: AML patients with CSF3R mutations had unique clinical features and gene co-mutation spectrum. CSF3R mutation was an independent risk factor for DFS and could be a potential prognostic marker and therapeutic target for Chinese primary AML patients.
Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) carrying high-risk genetic lesions or high residual disease levels after therapy are particularly exposed to the risk of relapse. Here, we identified the long non-coding RNA CDK6-AS1 able to cluster an AML subgroup with peculiar gene signatures linked to hematopoietic cell differentiation and mitochondrial dynamics. CDK6-AS1 silencing triggered hematopoietic commitment in healthy CD34+ cells, whereas in AML cells the pathological undifferentiated state was rescued. This latter phenomenon derived from RUNX1 transcriptional control, responsible for the stemness of hematopoietic precursors and for the block of differentiation in AML. By CDK6-AS1 silencing in vitro, AML mitochondrial mass decreased with augmented pharmacological sensitivity to mitochondria-targeting drugs. In vivo, the combination of tigecycline and cytarabine reduced leukemia progression in the AML-PDX model with high CDK6-AS1 levels, supporting the concept of a mitochondrial vulnerability. Together, these findings uncover CDK6-AS1 as crucial in myeloid differentiation and mitochondrial mass regulation.
RUNX1 is a transcription factor that plays key roles in hematopoietic development and in hematopoiesis and lymphopoiesis. In this article, we report that RUNX1 regulates a gene expression program in naive mouse B cells that affects the dynamics of cell cycle entry in response to stimulation of the BCR. Conditional knockout of Runx1 in mouse resting B cells resulted in accelerated entry into S-phase after BCR engagement. Our results indicate that Runx1 regulates the cyclin D2 (Ccnd2) gene, the immediate early genes Fosl2, Atf3, and Egr2, and the Notch pathway gene Rbpj in mouse B cells, reducing the rate at which transcription of these genes increases after BCR stimulation. RUNX1 interacts with the chromatin remodeler SNF-2-related CREB-binding protein activator protein (SRCAP), recruiting it to promoter and enhancer regions of the Ccnd2 gene. BCR-mediated activation triggers switching between binding of RUNX1 and its paralog RUNX3 and between SRCAP and the switch/SNF remodeling complex member BRG1. Binding of BRG1 is increased at the Ccnd2 and Rbpj promoters in the Runx1 knockout cells after BCR stimulation. We also find that RUNX1 exerts positive or negative effects on a number of genes that affect the activation response of mouse resting B cells. These include Cd22 and Bank1, which act as negative regulators of the BCR, and the IFN receptor subunit gene Ifnar1 The hyperresponsiveness of the Runx1 knockout B cells to BCR stimulation and its role in regulating genes that are associated with immune regulation suggest that RUNX1 could be involved in regulating B cell tolerance.
Vitamin D (VD) is a multifunctional prohormone and low VD status in pregnancy may contribute to the risk of adverse perinatal outcomes, such as preeclampsia (PE). This molecule may modulate the polarization of T cell subsets during gestation. This study evaluated the in vitro immunomodulatory effect of VD [1,25(OH)2D3] on the gene expression of transcription factors and on cytokine production by T cell subsets. Twenty pregnant women with PE and twenty normotensive (NT) pregnant women were studied. Plasma concentration of VD, [25(OH)D3], was evaluated by chemiluminescence. PBMCs from preeclamptic and NT pregnant women were cultured in the absence or presence of VD to determine gene expression of T-bet (Th1), GATA-3 (Th2), RORγt, and RUNX1 (Th17), FoxP3 (regulatory T cell- Treg), and the receptors of VD (VDR) and IL-23 (IL-23R) by quantitative PCR. The concentration of cytokines in the PBMC supernatant culture was determined by cytometric bead array and ELISA immunoassay. The results showed that plasmatic levels of VD were significantly lower in the PE group. The treatment of PBMCs from PE pregnant women with VD induced downregulation of genes related to inflammatory profiles (Th1 and Th17), as well as an increase of the Th2 and Treg profiles. Thus, VD treatment decreased the release of IFN-γ, TNF-α, IL-17, IL-6, and IL-23 while it increased the levels of IL-10 in the PE group. VD induces an immunomodulatory effect in T cell subsets from pregnant women with PE, polarizing these cells to an anti-inflammatory and regulatory profile.
BACKGROUND: Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a group of hematological malignancies that may progress to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Bioinformatics-based analysis of high-frequency mutation genes in MDS-related patients is still relatively rare, so we conducted our research to explore whether high-frequency mutation genes in MDS-related patients can play a reference role in clinical guidance and prognosis.METHODS: Next generation sequencing (NGS) technology was used to detect 32 mutations in 64 MDS-related patients. We classified the patients' genes and analyzed them by Gene Ontology (GO) analysis, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis, and then calculated the gene survival curve of high-frequency mutations.RESULTS: We discovered 32 mutant genes such as ASXL1, DNMT3A, KRAS, NRAS, TP53, SF3B1, and SRSF2. The overall survival (OS) of these genes decreased significantly after DNMT3A, ASXL1, RUNX1, and U2AF1 occurred mutation. These genes play a significant role in biological processes, not only in MDS but also in the occurrence and development of other diseases. Through retrospective analysis, genes associated with MDS-related diseases were identified, and their effects on the disease were predicted.CONCLUSIONS: Thirty-two mutant genes were determined in MDS and when mutations occur in DNMT3A, ASXL1, RUNX1, and U2AF1, their survival time decreases significantly. This results providing a theoretical basis for clinical and scientific research and broadening the scope of research on MDS.
Erratum in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2022 Sep 13;119(37):e2212181119.
BACKGROUND: Clonal hematopoiesis (CH) can be found in various myeloid neoplasms (MN), such as myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), myelodysplastic syndromes/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN), also in pre-MDS conditions.METHODS: Cytogenetics is an independent prognostic factor in MDS, and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) can be used as an adjunct to karyotype analysis. In the past 5 years, only 35 of 100 newly diagnosed MDS and MDS/MPN patients were identified abnormalities, who underwent the FISH panel. In addition, we examined a cohort of 51 cytopenic patients suspected MDS or MDS/MPN with a 20-gene next generation sequencing (NGS), including 35 newly diagnosed MN patients and 16 clonal cytopenias of undetermined significance (CCUS) patients.RESULTS: Compared with the CCUS group, the MN group had higher male ratio (22/13 vs 10/6), cytogenetics abnormalities rate (41.4% vs 21.4%) and frequency of a series of mutations, such as ASXL1 (28.6% vs 25%), U2AF1 (25.7% vs 25%), RUNX1 (20% vs 0.0%); also, higher adverse mutations proportion (75% vs 85.2%), and double or multiple mutations (54.3% vs 43.75%). There were 7 MN patients and 4 CCUS patients who experienced cardio-cerebrovascular embolism events demonstrated a significant difference between the two groups (25% vs 20%). Ten of the 11 patients had somatic mutations, half had DNA methylation, while the other half had RNA splicing. Additionally, six patients had disease transformation, and four patients had mutated U2AF1, including two CCUS cases and two MDS-EB cases. Following up to January 2021, there was no significant difference in over survival between the CCUS and MN groups.CONCLUSION: NGS facilitates the diagnosis of unexplained cytopenias. The monitoring and management of CCUS is necessary, also cardio-cerebrovascular embolism events in patients with CH need attention in the clinical practice.
The detection of recurrent genetic abnormalities in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), including RUNX1T1/RUNX1 gene fusion, is critical for optimal medical management. Herein, we report a 45 year old woman with newly diagnosed AML and conventional chromosome studies that revealed an apparently balanced t(8;20)(q22;p13) in all 20 metaphases analyzed. A RUNX1T1/RUNX1 dual-color dual-fusion fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe set was subsequently performed and revealed a RUNX1T1/RUNX1 gene fusion. Metaphase FISH studies performed on abnormal metaphases revealed a cryptic, complex translocation resulting in RUNX1T1/RUNX1 fusion, t(8;20;21)(q22;p13;q22). This case study shows the importance of performing FISH studies or other high-resolution genetic testing concurrently with conventional chromosome studies for the detection of cryptic recurrent gene fusions in AML, particularly a focused genetic evaluation such as RUNX1T1/RUNX1 gene fusion, when specific abnormalities involving 8q22 are identified.
Despite being predominantly a childhood disease, the incidence of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) has a second peak in adults aged 60 years and over. These older adults fare extremely poorly with existing treatment strategies and very few studies have undertaken a comprehensive genetic and genomic characterization to improve prognosis in this age group. We performed cytogenetic, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array and next-generation sequencing (NGS) analyses on samples from 210 patients aged ≥60 years from the UKALL14 and UKALL60+ clinical trials. BCR-ABL1-positive disease was present in 26% (55/210) of patients, followed by low hypodiploidy/near triploidy in 13% (28/210). Cytogenetically cryptic rearrangements in CRLF2, ZNF384 and MEF2D were detected in 5%, 1% and <1% of patients, respectively. Copy number abnormalities were common and deletions in ALL driver genes were seen in 77% of cases. IKZF1 deletion was present in 51% (40/78) of samples tested and the IKZF1plus profile was identified in over a third (28/77) of cases of B-cell precursor ALL. The genetic good-risk abnormalities high hyperdiploidy (n=2), ETV6-RUNX1 (no cases) and ERG deletion (no cases) were exceptionally rare in this cohort. RAS pathway mutations were seen in 17% (4/23) of screened samples. KDM6A abnormalities, including biallelic deletions, were discovered in 5% (4/78) of SNP arrays and 9% (2/23) of NGS samples, and represent novel, potentially therapeutically actionable lesions using EZH2 inhibitors. Outcome remained poor with 5-year event-free and overall survival rates of 17% and 24%, respectively, across the cohort, indicating a need for novel therapeutic strategies.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Blood Diseases, Institute of Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
Many patients with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries have persistent quadriceps muscle atrophy, even after considerable time in rehabilitation. Understanding the factors that regulate muscle mass, and the time course of atrophic events, is important for identifying therapeutic interventions. With a noninvasive animal model of ACL injury, a longitudinal study was performed to elucidate key parameters underlying quadriceps muscle atrophy. Male Long-Evans rats were euthanized at 6, 12, 24, or 48 h or 1, 2, or 4 wk after ACL injury that was induced via tibial compression overload; controls were not injured. Vastus lateralis muscle size was determined by wet weight and fiber cross-sectional area (CSA). Evidence of disrupted neuromuscular communication was assessed via the expression of neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and genes associated with denervation and neuromuscular junction instability. Abundance of muscle RING-finger protein-1 (MuRF-1), muscle atrophy F-box (MAFbx), and 45 s pre-rRNA along with 20S proteasome activity were determined to investigate mechanisms related to muscle atrophy. Finally, muscle damage-related parameters were assessed by measuring IgG permeability, centronucleation, CD68 mRNA, and satellite cell abundance. When compared with controls, we observed a greater percentage of NCAM-positive fibers at 6 h postinjury, followed by higher MAFbx abundance 48 h postinjury, and higher 20S proteasome activity at 1 wk postinjury. A loss of muscle wet weight, smaller fiber CSA, and the elevated expression of run-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) were also observed at the 1 wk postinjury timepoint relative to controls. There also were no differences observed in any damage markers. These results indicate that alterations in neuromuscular communication precede the upregulation of atrophic factors that regulate quadriceps muscle mass early after noninvasive ACL injury.NEW & NOTEWORTHY A novel preclinical model of ACL injury was used to establish that acute disruptions in neuromuscular communication precede atrophic events. These data help to establish the time course of muscle atrophy after ACL injury, suggesting that clinical care may benefit from the application of acute neurogenic interventions and early gait reloading strategies.
To obtain a comprehensive picture of composite genetic driver events and clonal dynamics in subtypes of paediatric acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) we analysed tumour-normal whole genome sequencing and expression data from 361 newly diagnosed patients. We report the identification of both structural drivers, as well as recurrent non-coding variation in promoters. Additionally we found the transcriptional profile of histone gene cluster 1 and CTCF altered tumours shared hallmarks of hyperdiploid ALL suggesting a 'hyperdiploid like' subtype. ALL subtypes are driven by distinct mutational processes with AID mutagenesis being confined to ETV6-RUNX1 tumours. Subclonality is a ubiquitous feature of ALL, consistent with Darwinian evolution driving selection and expansion of tumours. Driver mutations in B-cell developmental genes (IKZF1, PAX5, ZEB2) tend to be clonal and RAS/RTK mutations subclonal. In addition to identifying new avenues for therapeutic exploitation, this analysis highlights that targeted therapies should take into account composite mutational profile and clonality.
Background: People with Down Syndrome (DS) are born with an extra copy of Chromosome (Chr) 21 and many of these individuals develop Alzheimer's Disease (AD) when they age. This is due at least in part to the extra copy of the APP gene located on Chr 21. By 40 years, most people with DS have amyloid plaques which disrupt brain cell function and increase their risk for AD. About half of the people with DS develop AD and the associated dementia around 50 to 60 years of age, which is about the age at which the hereditary form of AD, early onset AD, manifests. In the absence of Chr 21 trisomy, duplication of APP alone is a cause of early onset Alzheimer's disease, making it likely that having three copies of APP is important in the development of AD and in DS. Methods: We investigate the relationship between AD and DS through integrative analysis of genesets derived from a MeSH query of AD and DS associated beta amyloid peptides, Chr 21, GWAS identified AD risk factor genes, and differentially expressed genes in individuals with DS. Results:  Unique and shared aspects of each geneset were evaluated based on  functional enrichment analysis, transcription factor profile and network interactions. Genes that may be important to both disorders in the context of direct association with APP processing, Tau post translational modification  and network connectivity are ACSM1, APBA2, APLP1, BACE2, BCL2L, COL18A1, DYRK1A, IK, KLK6, METTL2B, MTOR, NFE2L2, NFKB1, PRSS1, QTRT1, RCAN1, RUNX1, SAP18 SOD1, SYNJ1, S100B. Conclusions: Our findings confirm that oxidative stress, apoptosis, inflammation and immune system processes likely contribute to the pathogenesis of AD and DS which is consistent with other published reports.
Following peripheral nerve injury, transcription factors upregulated in the distal nerve play essential roles in Schwann cell reprogramming, fibroblast activation and immune cell function to create a permissive distal nerve environment for axonal regrowth. In this report, we first analysed four microarray data sets to identify transcription factors that have at least twofold upregulation in the mouse distal nerve stump at day 3 and day 7 post-injury. Next, we compared their relative mRNA levels through the analysis of an available bulk mRNA sequencing data set at day 5 post-injury. We then investigated the expression of identified TFs in analysed single-cell RNA sequencing data sets for the distal nerve at day 3 and day 9 post-injury. These analyses identified 55 transcription factors that have at least twofold upregulation in the distal nerve following mouse sciatic nerve injury. Expression profile for the identified 55 transcription factors in cells of the distal nerve stump was further analysed on the scRNA-seq data. Transcription factor network and functional analysis were performed in Schwann cells. We also validated the expression pattern of Jun, Junb, Runx1, Runx2, and Sox2 in the mouse distal nerve stump by immunostaining. The findings from our study not only could be used to understand the function of key transcription factors in peripheral nerve regeneration but also could be used to facilitate experimental design for future studies to investigate the function of individual TFs in peripheral nerve regeneration.
In this real-world clinical study, in which we determined eligibility for allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation by prognostic factors and minimal residual disease status, we retrospectively evaluated cytogenetic, genetic, and clinical features in 96 patients with core-binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF-AML) including 62 patients with RUNX1/RUNX1T1 and 34 patients with CBFβ/MYH11. Multivariate analyses for 5-year overall survival (OS) in CBF-AML patients revealed that age of 50 years or older (HR: 3.46, 95% CI 1.47-8.11, P = 0.004) and receiving 2 or more induction cycles (HR: 3.55, 95% CI 1.57-8.05, P = 0.002) were independently associated with worse OS and that loss of sex chromosome (LOS) was independently associated with better OS (HR: 0.09, 95% CI 0.01-0.71, P = 0.022). At the time of complete remission, all 21 karyotyped patients with LOS had a normal karyotype. Furthermore, in all 9 patients with LOS who had a mosaic of metaphase cells with and without t(8;21) or inv(16), the metaphase cells without t(8;21)/inv(16) showed a normal karyotype. These results proved that LOS was not age-related and physiological, but rather a neoplastic chromosomal abnormality.
Cardiac morphogenesis relies on intricate intercellular signaling. Altered signaling impacts cardiac function and is detrimental to embryonic survival. Here we report an unexpected regulatory role of the desmosomal cell adhesion molecule desmoglein 2 (Dsg2) on murine heart development. A large percentage of Dsg2-mutant embryos develop pericardial hemorrhage. Lethal myocardial rupture is occasionally observed, which is not associated with loss of cardiomyocyte contact but with expansion of abnormal, non-myocyte cell clusters within the myocardial wall. Two types of abnormal cell clusters can be distinguished: Type A clusters involve endocard-associated, round-shaped CD31+ cells, which proliferate and invade the myocardium. They acquire Runx1- and CD44-positivity indicating a shift towards a hematopoietic phenotype. Type B clusters expand subepicardially and next to type A clusters. They consist primarily of Ter119+ erythroid cells with interspersed Runx1+/CD44+ cells suggesting that they originate from type A cell clusters. The observed pericardial hemorrhage is caused by migration of erythrocytes from type B clusters through the epicardium and rupture of the altered cardiac wall. Finally, evidence is presented that structural defects of Dsg2-depleted cardiomyocytes are primary to the observed pathogenesis. We propose that cardiomyocyte-driven paracrine signaling, which likely involves Notch1, directs subsequent trans-differentiation of endo- and epicardial cells. Together, our observations uncover a hitherto unknown regulatory role of Dsg2 in cardiogenesis.
A major drawback of single-cell ATAC-seq (scATAC-seq) is its sparsity, i.e., open chromatin regions with no reads due to loss of DNA material during the scATAC-seq protocol. Here, we propose scOpen, a computational method based on regularized non-negative matrix factorization for imputing and quantifying the open chromatin status of regulatory regions from sparse scATAC-seq experiments. We show that scOpen improves crucial downstream analysis steps of scATAC-seq data as clustering, visualization, cis-regulatory DNA interactions, and delineation of regulatory features. We demonstrate the power of scOpen to dissect regulatory changes in the development of fibrosis in the kidney. This identifies a role of Runx1 and target genes by promoting fibroblast to myofibroblast differentiation driving kidney fibrosis.
Diabetic nephropathy is one of the common microvascular complications of diabetes. Iron death is a recently reported way of cell death. To explore the effects of iron death on diabetic nephropathy, iron death score of diabetic nephropathy was analyzed based on the network and pathway levels. Furthermore, markers related to iron death were screened. Using RNA-seq data of diabetic nephropathy, samples were clustered uniformly and the disease was classified. Differentially expressed gene analysis was conducted on the typed disease samples, and the WGCNA algorithm was used to obtain key modules. String database was used to perform protein interaction analysis on key module genes for the selection of Hub genes. Moreover, principal component analysis method was applied to get transcription factors and non-coding genes, which interact with the Hub gene. All samples can be divided into two categories and principal component analysis shows that the two categories are significantly different. Hub genes (FPR3, C3AR1, CD14, ITGB2, RAC2 and ITGAM) related to iron death in diabetic nephropathy were obtained through gene expression differential analysis between different subtypes. Non-coding genes that interact with Hub genes, including hsa-miR-572, hsa-miR-29a-3p, hsa-miR-29b-3p, hsa-miR-208a-3p, hsa-miR-153-3p and hsa-miR-29c-3p, may be related to diabetic nephropathy. Transcription factors HIF1α, KLF4, KLF5, RUNX1, SP1, VDR and WT1 may be related to diabetic nephropathy. The above factors and Hub genes are collectively involved in the occurrence and development of diabetic nephropathy, which can be further studied in the future. Moreover, these factors and genes may be potential target for therapeutic drugs.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kagoshima University School of Medical and Dental Science.
Exposures to a wide repertoire of common childhood infections and strong inflammatory responses to those infections are associated with the risk of pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in opposing directions. Neonatal inflammatory markers are also related to risk by unknown mechanism(s). Here, we demonstrate that interleukin-10 (IL-10) deficiency, which is associated with childhood B-ALL, indirectly impairs B lymphopoiesis and increases B-cell DNA damage in association with a module of 6 proinflammatory/myeloid-associated cytokines (IL-1α, IL-6, IL-12p40, IL-13, macrophage inflammatory protein-1β/CCL4, and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor). Importantly, antibiotics attenuated inflammation and B-cell defects in preleukemic Cdkn2a-/-Il10-/- mice. In an ETV6-RUNX1+ (E6R1+) Cdkn2a-/- mouse model of B-ALL, decreased levels of IL-10 accelerated B-cell neoplasms in a dose-dependent manner and altered the mutational profile of these neoplasms. Our results illuminate a mechanism through which a low level of IL-10 can create a risk for leukemic transformation and support developing evidence that microbial dysbiosis contributes to pediatric B-ALL.
In spite of early interventions to treat acute myocardial infarction (MI), the occurrence of adverse cardiac remodeling following heart failure due to acute MI remains a clinical challenge. Thus, there is an increasing demand for the development of novel therapeutic agents capable of inhibiting the development of pathological ventricular remodeling. RNA-seq data analysis of acute MI rat models from GEO revealed that Runx1 was the most differentially expressed MI-related gene. In this study, we demonstrated that increased Runx1 expression under pathological conditions results in decreased cardiac contractile function. We identified dihydrolycorine, an alkaloid lycorine, as a promising inhibitor of Runx1. Our results showed that treatment with this drug could prevent adverse cardiac remodeling, as indicated by the downregulation of fibrotic genes using western blotting (collagen I, TGFβ, and p-smad3), downregulation of the apoptosis gene Bax, upregulation of the apoptosis gene Bcl-2, and improved cardiac functions, such as LVEF, LVSF, LVESD, and LVEDD. Additionally, dihydrolycorine treatment could rescue cardiomyocyte hypertrophy as demonstrated by wheat germ agglutinin staining, increased expression levels of the punctuate gap junction protein connexin 43, and decreased α-SMA expression, resulting in cardiomyocyte fibrosis in immunofluorescence staining. Molecular docking, binding modeling, and pull-down assays were used to identify potential dihydrolycorine-binding sites in Runx1. When Ad-sh-Runx1 was transfected into hypoxia-cardiomyocytes or injected into the hearts of MI rats, the cardioprotective effects of dihydrolycorine were abolished, and the normal electrophysiological activity of cardiomyocytes was disrupted. Taken together, the results of the present study indicate that dihydrolycorine may inhibit adverse cardiac remodeling after MI through the reduction of Runx1, suggesting that dihydrolycorine-mediated-Runx1 regulation might represent a novel therapeutic approach for adverse cardiac remodeling after MI.
Definitive long-term hematopoietic stem cells (LT-HSCs) arise during embryogenesis in a process termed endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT), in which specialized hemogenic endothelial cells (HECs) transform into hematopoietic cells. The transcription factor RUNX1 marks HECs and is essential for EHT. Ectopic RUNX1 expression in non-HECs is sufficient to convert them into HECs. However, the conversion efficiency depends on the developmental timing of expression. In this issue of Genes & Development, Howell and colleagues (pp. 1475-1489) leverage this observation to further understand how RUNX1 mediates EHT. They engineered mice that ectopically express RUNX1 in endothelial cells at different developmental time points and doses. They then performed chromatin accessibility and other analyses and correlate this with hemogenic potential. They found that RUNX1 collaborates with TGFβ signaling transcription factors to drive chromatin accessibility changes that specify HECs. They also highlight interesting parallels between EHT and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndoMT), which occurs during cardiac development. The results of Howell and colleagues provide new mechanistic insights into EHT and take us one step closer to generating patient-specific LT-HSCs from induced pluripotent stem cells.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological malignancy with high relapse/refractory rate. Genetic and epigenetic abnormalities are driving factors for leukemogenesis. RUNX1 and RUNX2 from the Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family played important roles in AML pathogenesis. However, the relationship between RUNX3 and AML remains unclear. Here, we found that RUNX3 was a super-enhancer-associated gene and highly expressed in AML cells. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database showed high expression of RUNX3 correlated with poor prognosis of AML patients. We observed that Runx3 knockdown significantly inhibited leukemia progression by inducing DNA damage to enhance apoptosis in murine AML cells. By chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis, we discovered that RUNX3 in AML cells mainly bound more genes involved in DNA-damage repair and antiapoptosis pathways compared to that in normal bone marrow cells. Runx3 knockdown obviously inhibited the expression of these genes in AML cells. Overall, we identified RUNX3 as an oncogene overexpressed in AML cells, and Runx3 knockdown suppressed AML progression by inducing DNA damage and apoptosis.
BACKGROUND: Coronavirus disease 2019 is characterized by the elevation of a broad spectrum of inflammatory mediators associated with poor disease outcomes. We aimed at an in-silico analysis of regulatory microRNA and their transcription factors (TF) for these inflammatory genes that may help to devise potential therapeutic strategies in the future.METHODS: The cytokine regulating immune-expressed genes (CRIEG) were sorted from literature and the GEO microarray dataset. Their co-differentially expressed miRNA and transcription factors were predicted from publicly available databases. Enrichment analysis was done through mienturnet, MiEAA, Gene Ontology, and pathways predicted by KEGG and Reactome pathways. Finally, the functional and regulatory features were analyzed and visualized through Cytoscape.RESULTS: Sixteen CRIEG were observed to have a significant protein-protein interaction network. The ontological analysis revealed significantly enriched pathways for biological processes, molecular functions, and cellular components. The search performed in the miRNA database yielded ten miRNAs that are significantly involved in regulating these genes and their transcription factors.CONCLUSION: An in-silico representation of a network involving miRNAs, CRIEGs, and TF, which take part in the inflammatory response in COVID-19, has been elucidated. Thus, these regulatory factors may have potentially critical roles in the inflammatory response in COVID-19 and may be explored further to develop targeted therapeutic strategies and mechanistic validation.
Myeloid sarcoma (MS) is a rare extramedullary manifestation of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). The mass is composed of primitive myeloid cells that can occur in a variety of organs, most commonly the skin, lymph nodes, GI tract, bone, breast, and CNS. Involvement of the genitourinary tract is rare. Consensus on treatment of MS has not been established, but management typically involves systemic therapy, such as chemotherapy or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant as well as palliative local therapies such as radiation or surgery. Outcomes of MS using novel AML therapies, such as BCL-2 inhibitors or IDH inhibitors, remain undescribed. We describe a rare case of a 70-year-old man presenting with MS of the urinary bladder complicating known secondary AML (RUNX1 and IDH2 mutated). Prior to development of bladder MS, the patient had received decitabine, enasidenib, and venetoclax. Following diagnosis, he was treated with cytarabine and venetoclax. To our knowledge, this is the first case of bladder MS treated with a BCL-2 inhibitor.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common acute leukemia in adults that affects the myeloid lineage. The recent advances have upgraded our understanding of the cytogenetic abnormalities and molecular mutations associated with AML that further aids in prognostication and risk stratification of the disease. Based on the highly heterogeneous nature of the disease and cytogenetic profile, AML patients can be stratified into favourable, intermediate and adverse-risk groups. The recurrent genetic alterations provide novel insights into the pathogenesis, clinical characteristics and also into the overall survival of the patients. In this review we are discussing about the cytogenetics of AML and the recurrent gene alterations such us NPM1, FLT3, CEBPA, TET-2, c-KIT, DNMT3A, IDH, RUNX1, AXSL1, WT1, Ras gene mutations etc. These gene mutations serve as important prognostic markers as well as potential therapeutic targets. AML patients respond to induction chemotherapy initially and subsequently achieve complete remission (CR), eventually most of them get relapsed.
Diffuse large B‑cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a common and fatal malignant tumor caused by B‑lymphocytes. Long non‑coding RNA (lncRNA) GAS5 (growth arrest specific 5) has been reported to function as a tumor suppressor gene, and is differentially expressed in DLBCL. The present study aimed to explore the potential mechanisms of action of lncRNA GAS5 in the proliferation of DLBCL cells. The expression levels of GAS5, miR‑18a‑5p and Runt‑related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) in DLBCL cell lines were detected using reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and their effects on cell proliferation, the cell cycle and apoptosis were determined using 5‑ethynyl‑2'‑deoxyuridine assay and flow cytometry. Dual‑luciferase reporter and RNA pull-down assays were used to evaluate the interaction between GAS5 and miR‑18a‑5p, or between miR‑18a‑5p and RUNX1. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay was used to identify the interaction between RUNX1 and BAX. The expression levels of GAS5 and RUNX1 were downregulated; however, miR‑18a‑5p expression was upregulated in the DLBCL cell lines compared with the normal controls. GAS5 directly interacted with miR‑18a‑5p by acting as a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) and reversed the low expression of RUNX1 induced by miR‑18a‑5p. Additionally, the knockdown of RUNX1 reversed the inhibitory effects of GAS5 on the proliferation and cell cycle G1 arrest, and its promoting effects on the apoptosis of OCI‑Ly3 and TMD8 cells. Moreover, RUNX1 enhanced BAX expression by directly binding to the BAX promoter. On the whole, the present study demonstrates that GAS5 functions as a ceRNA, inhibiting DLBCL cell proliferation by sponging miR‑18a‑5p to upregulate RUNX1 expression. These findings may provide a potential therapeutic strategy for DLBCL.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Feb 17;139(7):959-961.
Although childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is curable, global disparities in treatment outcomes remain. To reduce these global disparities in low-middle income countries (LMIC), a paradigm shift is needed: start with curing low-risk ALL. Low-risk ALL, which accounts for >50% of patients, can be cured with low-toxicity therapies already defined by collaborative studies. We reviewed the components of these low-toxicity regimens in recent clinical trials for low-risk ALL and suggest how they can be adopted in LMIC. In treating childhood ALL, the key is risk stratification, which can be resource stratified. NCI standard-risk criteria (age 1-10 years, WBC < 50,000/uL) is simple yet highly effective. Other favorable features such as ETV6-RUNX1, hyperdiploidy, early peripheral blood and bone marrow responses, and simplified flow MRD at the end of induction can be added depending on resources. With limited supportive care in LMIC, more critical than relapse is treatment-related morbidity and mortality. Less intensive induction allows early marrow recovery, reducing the need for intensive supportive care. Other key elements in low-toxicity protocol designs include: induction steroid type; high-dose versus low-dose escalating methotrexate; judicious use of anthracyclines; and steroid pulses during maintenance. In summary, the first effective step in curing ALL in LMIC is to focus on curing low-risk ALL with less intensive therapy and less toxicity.
Hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) are generated de novo in the embryo from hemogenic endothelial cells (HECs) via an endothelial-to-hematopoietic transition (EHT) that requires the transcription factor RUNX1. Ectopic expression of RUNX1 alone can efficiently promote EHT and HSPC formation from embryonic endothelial cells (ECs), but less efficiently from fetal or adult ECs. Efficiency correlated with baseline accessibility of TGFβ-related genes associated with endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndoMT) and participation of AP-1 and SMAD2/3 to initiate further chromatin remodeling along with RUNX1 at these sites. Activation of TGFβ signaling improved the efficiency with which RUNX1 specified fetal ECs as HECs. Thus, the ability of RUNX1 to promote EHT depends on its ability to recruit the TGFβ signaling effectors AP-1 and SMAD2/3, which in turn is determined by the changing chromatin landscape in embryonic versus fetal ECs. This work provides insight into regulation of EndoMT and EHT that will guide reprogramming efforts for clinical applications.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignant disease of the hematopoietic system. Residual leukemic cells after treatment are associated with relapse. Thus, detecting minimal residual disease (MRD) is significant. Major techniques for MRD assessment include multiparameter flow cytometry (MFC), polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and next-generation sequencing (NGS). At a molecular level, AML is the consequence of collaboration of several gene alterations. Some of these gene alterations can also be used as MRD markers to evaluate the level of residual leukemic cells by PCR and NGS. However, when as MRD markers, different gene alterations have different clinical values. This paper aims to summarize the characteristics of various MRD markers, so as to better predict the clinical outcome of AML patients and guide the treatment.
Analysis of nucleotide variants is a cornerstone of cancer medicine. Although only 2% of the genomic sequence is protein coding, mutations occurring in these regions have the potential to influence protein structure or modification status and may have severe impact on disease aetiology. Proteogenomics enables the analysis of sample-specific nonsynonymous nucleotide variants with regard to their effect at the proteome and phosphoproteome levels. Here, we developed a proof-of-concept proteogenomics workflow and applied it to the malignant melanoma cell line A375. Initially, we studied the resistance to serine/threonine-protein kinase B-raf (BRAF) inhibitor (BRAFi) vemurafenib in A375 cells. This allowed identification of several oncogenic nonsynonymous nucleotide variants, including a gain-of-function variant on aurora kinase A (AURKA) at F31I. We also detected significant changes in abundance among (phospho)proteins, which led to reactivation of the MAPK signaling pathway in BRAFi-resistant A375 cells. Upon reconstruction of the multiomic integrated signaling networks, we predicted drug therapies with the potential to disrupt BRAFi resistance mechanism in A375 cells. Notably, we showed that AURKA inhibition is effective and specific against BRAFi-resistant A375 cells. Subsequently, we investigated amino acid variants that interfere with protein posttranslational modification (PTM) status and potentially influence A375 cell signaling irrespective of BRAFi resistance. Mass spectrometry (MS) measurements confirmed variant-driven PTM changes in 12 proteins. Among them was the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) displaying a variant on a known phosphorylation site S(Ph)276L. We confirmed the loss of phosphorylation site by MS and demonstrated the impact of this variant on RUNX1 interactome.
OBJECTIVE: Adipose tissue is a major source of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) that can regulate target genes in distant organs. However, the role of brown adipose tissue (BAT) in diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is still unknown. We studied the original BAT miR-30b targeting two key fibrotic regulators, Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) and snail family zinc finger 1 (Snail1), to combat DKD.METHODS: First, we transplanted healthy BAT from normal mouse donors into diabetic mice (induced by a high-fat diet and streptozotocin injection). In vitro, we observed extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted from brown adipocytes. AgomiR-30b was directly administered to the BAT of diabetic mice twice weekly for 4 consecutive weeks. Next, the role of Runx1 in DKD was determined by using siRUNX1 or pCMV-RUNX1 in HK-2 cells and in diabetic mice treated with AAV9-U6-shRunx1 or AAV9-EF1a-Runx1.RESULTS: BAT transplantation reactivated endogenous BAT activity in diabetic mice, increased circulating miR-30b levels and significantly ameliorated DKD. In TGFβ1-treated HK-2 cells, miR-30b expression was significantly suppressed. miR-30b overexpression markedly decreased fibronectin and downregulated Runx1 and Snail1 expression, while silencing of miR-30b had the opposite effects. Next, Runx1 knockdown and overexpression mimicked the above phenotype of miR-30b mimics and inhibitors, respectively, both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, Runx1 promoted TGFβ1-induced fibrosis by upregulating the PI3K pathway.CONCLUSION: BAT-derived miRNAs might be a promising target for kidney protection in diabetes mellitus.
Trained immunity defines long-lasting adaptations of innate immunity based on transcriptional and epigenetic modifications of myeloid cells and their bone marrow progenitors [M. Divangahi et al., Nat. Immunol. 22, 2-6 (2021)]. Innate immune cells, however, do not exclusively differentiate between foreign and self but also react to host-derived molecules referred to as alarmins. Extracellular "labile" heme, released during infections, is a bona fide alarmin promoting myeloid cell activation [M. P. Soares, M. T. Bozza, Curr. Opin. Immunol. 38, 94-100 (2016)]. Here, we report that labile heme is a previously unrecognized inducer of trained immunity that confers long-term regulation of lineage specification of hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells. In contrast to previous reports on trained immunity, essentially mediated by pathogen-associated molecular patterns, heme training depends on spleen tyrosine kinase signal transduction pathway acting upstream of c-Jun N-terminal kinases. Heme training promotes resistance to sepsis, is associated with the expansion of self-renewing hematopoetic stem cells primed toward myelopoiesis and to the occurrence of a specific myeloid cell population. This is potentially evoked by sustained activity of Nfix, Runx1, and Nfe2l2 and dissociation of the transcriptional repressor Bach2. Previously reported trained immunity inducers are, however, infrequently present in the host, whereas heme abundantly occurs during noninfectious and infectious disease. This difference might explain the vanishing protection exerted by heme training in sepsis over time with sustained long-term myeloid adaptations. Hence, we propose that trained immunity is an integral component of innate immunity with distinct functional differences on infectious disease outcome depending on its induction by pathogenic or endogenous molecules.
BACKGROUND: Cardiac hypertrophy may be classified as either physiological or pathological. Pathological hypertrophy has a complex etiology and is genetically regulated. In this study, we used a mouse model of cardiac hypertrophy to explore the mechanisms of gene regulation, in particular, modulation of the expression of target genes through transcription factor activity, regulation of immune and inflammation-associated genes and regulation of the alternative splicing of transcription factors.METHODS: Mouse models of pathological cardiac hypertrophy were established by transverse aortic constriction (TAC). We overexpressed HSPA1A in mouse cardiac HL-1 cells. GO and KEGG pathway annotation database was used to analyze all DEGs.RESULTS: The expression of HSPA1A differed significantly between TAC + dantrolene vs. sham + dantrolene (Sham was the non-TAC group, and DMSO was the contrast agent), and TAC + DMSO vs. sham + DMSO. The RNA-binding protein Zfp36 was found to be differentially expressed between both TAC + dantrolene vs. sham + dantrolene and TAC + DMSO vs. sham + DMSO. The expression of mki67 and gm5619 was significantly different between TAC + dantrolene and TAC + DMSO. HSPA1A was found to selectively regulate the expression of non-coding RNAs related to cardiac hypertrophy, including Rn7sk and RMRP. The downregulated genes were mainly related to inflammation and the immune response. HSPA1A negatively regulated alternative splicing of Asxl2 and positively regulated alternative splicing of Runx1.CONCLUSIONS: HSPA1A was closely related to cardiac hypertrophy. Zfp36 was also related to cardiac hypertrophy. Dantrolene may delay cardiac hypertrophy and ventricular remodeling by regulating the expression of the RNA-binding protein genes mki67 and gm5619. HSPA1A positively regulated the expression of the non-coding RNAs RN7SK and RMRP while negatively regulating the expression of inflammation- and immune response-related genes. HSPA1A can play a role in cardiac hypertrophy by regulating the alternative splicing of asxl2 and runx1.
Background: Chemoresistance is one of the main causes of recurrence in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients and leads to a poor prognosis. To characterize RUNX1 expression in colorectal cancer (CRC) and elucidate its mechanistic involvement in the tumor biology of this disease. Methods: The expression of RUNX1 in CRC and normal tissues was detected by bioinformatics analysis. Cell proliferation was measured by CCK-8 and clonogenic assays. In vivo tumor progression was assessed with a xenograft mouse model. Cell drug sensitivity tests and flow cytometry were performed to analyze CRC cell chemoresistance. RUNX1, key molecules of the Hedgehog signaling pathway, and ABCG2 were detected by qRT-PCR and Western blotting. Results: RUNX1 expression is upregulated in CRC tissues. RUNX1 enhanced CRC cell resistance to 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), promoted proliferation, and inhibited 5-FU-induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, RUNX1 can activate the Hedgehog signaling pathway and promote the expression of ABCG2 in CRC cells. Conclusions: Our study demonstrated that RUNX1 promotes CRC proliferation and chemoresistance by activating the Hedgehog signaling pathway and ABCG2 expression.
BACKGROUND: In the ovarian follicle, the Theca Cells (TCs) have two main functions: preserving morphological integrity and, importantly, secreting steroid androgen hormones. TCs express the essential enzyme 17α-hydroxylase/17,20-desmolase (CYP17), which permits the conversion of pregnenolone and progesterone into androgens. Dysregulation of CYP17 enzyme activity due to an intrinsic ovarian defect is hypothesized to be a cause of hyperandrogenism in women. Androgen excess is observed in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) resulting from excess endogenous androgen production, and in transgender males undergoing exogenous testosterone therapy after female sex assignment at birth. However, the molecular and morphological effects of Cyp17 overexpression and androgen excess on folliculogenesis is unknown.METHODS: In this work, seeking a comprehensive profiling of the local outcomes of the androgen excess in the ovary, we generated a transgenic mouse model (TC17) with doxycycline (Dox)-induced Cyp17 overexpression in a local and temporal manner. TC17 mice were obtained by a combination of the Tet-dependent expression system and the Cre/LoxP gene control system.RESULTS: Ovaries of Dox-treated TC17 mice overexpressed Cyp17 specifically in TCs, inducing high testosterone levels. Surprisingly, TC17 ovarian morphology resembled the human ovarian features of testosterone-treated transgender men (partially impaired folliculogenesis, hypertrophic or luteinized stromal cells, atretic follicles, and collapsed clusters). We additionally assessed TC17 fertility denoting a perturbation of the normal reproductive functions (e.g., low pregnancy rate and numbers of pups per litter). Finally, RNAseq analysis permitted us to identify dysregulated genes (Lhcgr, Fshr, Runx1) and pathways (Extra Cellular Matrix and Steroid Synthesis).CONCLUSIONS: Our novel mouse model is a versatile tool to provide innovative insights into study the effects of Cyp17 overexpression and hyperandrogenism in the ovary.
Small cell carcinoma (SCC)/neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) is a rare and highly aggressive subtype of prostate cancer associated with an AR(androgen receptor)-null phenotype and visceral metastases. This study presents a 44-year-old man originally diagnosed with metastatic hormone-sensitive prostatic adenocarcinoma. After 6-month androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) combined with docetaxel, the patient developed paraplegia. Laminectomy was performed, and a thoracic vertebral biopsy revealed neuroendocrine differentiation and mixed adenocarcinoma. The patient developed liver metastases and experienced stable disease for 4 months following etoposide combined with cisplatin and pembrolizumab. Seminal vesicle biopsy after chemotherapy revealed small-cell cancer. The prostate biopsy specimen also indicated pure SCC. We witnessed the dynamic evolution from pure adenocarcinoma to fully differentiated SCC, leading to obstruction and death. In addition, whole-exome sequencing was performed on both biopsy specimens of the thoracic vertebra at the beginning of castration resistance and that of seminal vesicle after multiple lines of treatment failure. Utilizing phylogenetic reconstruction, we observed that both samples shared a common ancestor clone harboring aberrations in the TP53, RB1, and NF2 genes. We also discovered that driver events in the private subclones of both samples, such as alterations in CDC27 and RUNX1, might have played a significant role in tumor progression or even neuroendocrine differentiation. Tumor biopsy and IHC assessment must be repeated at different stages of progression, because of intrapatient spatial and temporal heterogeneity of adenocarcinoma versus SCC/NEPC. Although, typical treatments including ADT, docetaxel, etoposide, cisplatin, and pembrolizumab provided temporary response, the patient still had a poor prognosis.
Erythroid differentiation is a dynamic process regulated by multiple factors, whereas the interaction between long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and chromatin accessibility and its influence on erythroid differentiation remains unclear. To elucidate this interaction, we used hematopoietic stem cells, multipotent progenitor cells, common myeloid progenitor cells, megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor cells, and erythroblasts from human cord blood as an erythroid differentiation model to explore the coordinated regulatory functions of lncRNAs and chromatin accessibility by integrating RNA-seq and ATAC-seq data. We revealed that the integrated network of chromatin accessibility and lncRNAs exhibits stage-specific changes throughout the erythroid differentiation process and that the changes at the erythroblast stage of maturation are dramatic. We identified a subset of stage-specific lncRNAs and transcription factors (TFs) that associate with chromatin accessibility during erythroid differentiation, in which lncRNAs are key regulators of terminal erythroid differentiation via an lncRNA-TF-gene network. LncRNA PCED1B-AS1 was revealed to regulate terminal erythroid differentiation by coordinating GATA1 dynamically binding to the chromatin and interacting with the cytoskeleton network during erythroid differentiation. DANCR, another lncRNA that is highly expressed at the megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitor cell stage, was verified to promote erythroid differentiation by compromising megakaryocyte differentiation and coordinating with chromatin accessibility and TFs, such as RUNX1. Overall, our results identify the associated network of lncRNAs and chromatin accessibility in erythropoiesis and provide novel insights into erythroid differentiation and abundant resources for further study.
KMT2A rearrangements (KMT2A-r) are among the most common structural aberrations in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and are very important for the risk group stratification of patients. Here, we report the outcome of 967 pediatric AML patients with a known KMT2A-r status. The large cohort was characterized by morphology, multicolor flow cytometry, classical cytogenetics and mutation analysis via panel sequencing. In total, the blasts of 241 patients (24.9%) showed KMT2A-r. KMT2A-r is associated with FAB M5, a high white blood cell count and younger age at diagnosis. When subgroups were combined, KMT2A-r had no impact on event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS); however, various subgroups showed a different prognosis, ranging from a <50% OS for KMT2A/AFDN (n = 11) to a 100% chance of survival for patients harboring the rare translocation KMT2A/SEPTIN9 (n = 3, follow up of 3.7 to 9.6 years). A positive correlation of KMT2A-r with KRAS mutations (p < 0.001) existed, albeit without any prognostic impact. In addition, FLT3-ITDs were detected less frequently in AML with KMT2A-r (p < 0.001). Furthermore, KMT2A-r were mutually exclusive, with mutations in NPM1 (p = 0.002), KIT (p = 0.036), WT1 (p < 0.001) and CEBPA (p = 0.006), and translocations NUP98/NSD1 (p = 0.009), RUNX1/RUNX1T1 (p = 0.003) and CBFB/MYH11 (p = 0.006). In the 346 patients tested for CSPG4 expression, a correlation between CSPG4 expression and KMT2A-r was confirmed. However, CSPG4 expression also occurred in patients without KMT2A-r and had no significant prognostic impact on EFS and OS.
The biological behavior of sebaceous carcinoma (SeC) is relatively indolent; however, local invasion or distant metastasis is sometimes reported. Nevertheless, a lack of understanding of the genetic background of SeC makes it difficult to apply effective systemic therapy. This study was designed to investigate major genetic alterations in SeCs in Korean patients. A total of 29 samples, including 20 ocular SeCs (SeC-Os) and 9 extraocular SeCs (SeC-EOs), were examined. Targeted next-generation sequencing tests including 171 cancer-related genes were performed. TP53 and PIK3CA genes were frequently mutated in both SeC-Os and SeC-EOs with slight predominance in SeC-Os, whereas the NOTCH1 gene was more commonly mutated in SeC-EOs. In clinical correlation, mutations in RUNX1 and ATM were associated with development of distant metastases, and alterations in MSH6 and BRCA1 were associated with inferior progression-free survival (all p < 0.05). In conclusion, our study revealed distinct genetic alterations between SeC-Os and SeC-EOs and some important prognostic molecular markers. Mutations in potentially actionable genes, including EGFR, ERBB2, and mismatch repair genes, were noted, suggesting consideration of a clinical trial in intractable cases.
FZR1 has been implicated as a master regulator of the cell cycle and quiescence, but its roles and molecular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of severe aplastic anemia (SAA) are unclear. Here, we report that FZR1 is downregulated in SAA HSCs compared with healthy control and is associated with decreased quiescence of HSC. Haploinsufficiency of Fzr1 shows impaired quiescence and self-renewal ability of HSC in two Fzr1 heterozygous knockout mouse models. Mechanistically, FZR1 insufficiency inhibits the ubiquitination of RUNX1 protein at lysine 125, leading to the accumulation of RUNX1 protein, which disturbs the quiescence of HSCs in SAA patients. Moreover, downregulation of Runx1 reversed the loss of quiescence and impaired long-term self-renew ability in Fzr1+/- HSCs in vivo and impaired repopulation capacity in BM from SAA patients in vitro. Our findings, therefore, raise the possibility of a decisive role of the FZR1-RUNX1 pathway in the pathogenesis of SAA via deregulation of HSC quiescence.
Modifications of RNA commonly occur in all species. Multiple enzymes are involved as writers, erasers and readers of these modifications. Many RNA modifications or the respective enzymes are associated with human disease and especially cancer. Currently, the mechanisms how RNA modifications impact on a large number of intracellular processes are emerging and knowledge about the pathogenetic role of RNA modifications increases. In Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), the N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification has emerged as an important modulator of leukemogenesis. The writer proteins METTL3 and METTL14 are both involved in AML pathogenesis and might be suitable therapeutic targets. Recently, close links between 2'-O-methylation (2'-O-me) of ribosomal RNA and leukemogenesis were discovered. The AML1-ETO oncofusion protein which specifically occurs in a subset of AML was found to depend on induction of snoRNAs and 2'-O-me for leukemogenesis. Also, NPM1, an important tumor suppressor in AML, was associated with altered snoRNAs and 2'-O-me. These findings point toward novel pathogenetic mechanisms and potential therapeutic interventions. The current knowledge and the implications are the topic of this review.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710077, Shaanxi Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710077, Shaanxi Province, China E-mail: zhaojianqiang@xiyi.edu.cn.
BACKGROUND: The epigenetic regulator additional sex combs-like 1 (ASXL1) is an adverse prognostic factor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, the mutational spectrum and prognostic factors of ASXL1-mutated (ASXL1+) AML are largely unknown. We aim to evaluate the risk factors influencing the prognosis of ASXL1+ AML.METHODS: We performed next-generation sequencing (NGS) in 1047 cases of de novo AML and discovered 91 ASXL1+ AML (8.7%). The Log-Rank test and Kaplan-Meier were used to evaluate survival rate, and the Cox regression model was used to analyze multivariate analysis.RESULTS: In a total of 91 ASXL1+ AML, 86% had one or more co-mutations. The factors that had adverse impact on overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) are defined as high risk factors, including age ≥ 60 years, WBC count ≥ 50 × 109/L, FLT3-ITD mutations, RUNX1 mutations, and absence of AML1-ETO fusion gene. ASXL1 mutations without any risk factor were classified as single-hit ASXL1+ AML; ASXL1 mutations accompanied with one of the risk factors was referred to as double-hit ASXL1+ AML; ASXL1 mutations with two or more of the risk factors were designated as triple-hit ASXL1+ AML. The combination of these risk factors had a negative influence on the prognosis of ASXL1+ AML. The median OS was not attained in single-hit ASXL1+ AML, 29.53 months in double-hit ASXL1+ AML, and 6.67 months in triple-hit ASXL1+ AML (P = 0.003). The median EFS was not attained in single-hit ASXL1+ AML, 29.53 months in double-hit ASXL1+ AML, and 5.47 months in triple-hit ASXL1+ AML (P = 0.002). Allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) improved the prognosis of double/triple-hit ASXL1+ AML patients.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provided new insights into the mutational spectrum and prognostic factors of ASXL1+ AML patients. Our primary data suggest that the risk factors in ASXL1+ AML contribute to the poor outcome of these patients. The management of ASXL1+ AML patients should be based on the risk factors and allo-HSCT is highly recommended for consolidation.
Mastocytosis is a rare hematologic disorder characterized by abnormal proliferation and accumulation of neoplastic mast cells in various body sites. Isolated skin involvement is termed cutaneous mastocytosis (CM) and the term systemic mastocytosis (SM) refers to multi-organ involvement, most commonly of the bone marrow, skin, liver, and spleen. A subset of patients with SM have an associated clonal hematologic neoplasm which is most commonly myelodysplastic syndrome, chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, or acute myelogenous leukemia and this entity is termed SM with associated hematological neoplasm (AHN). Bone marrow involvement is present in all patients regardless of the subtype of SM. The genetic hallmark of SM is a somatic gain-of-function point mutation within the KIT gene. Other molecular aberrations that have been reported include somatic mutations in TET2, SRSF2, ASXL1, CBL, RUNX1, and RAS and these are common in SM-AHN. The clinical presentation of SM can range from indolent to advanced depending on extent of mast cell burden and genetic profile. In the case of indolent SM, the goal of treatment is to control mediator release-related effects as well as to reduce mast cell burden. In the case of SM-AHN, therapy is primarily that of the AHN and allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is the preferred therapy in suitable candidates.
Comment on    J Clin Invest. 2021 Jun 24;:
OBJECTIVE: Based on the immunophenotype, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) can be categorized into B-cell or T-cell lineages. B-cell precursor ALL (BCP-ALL) cases show various genetic/molecular abnormalities, and varying frequencies of chimeric fusion transcripts in BCP-ALL cases are reported from different parts of the world. We studied the immunophenotypic aberrancy profiles of a large number of BCP-ALL cases with respect to various common chimeric fusion transcripts.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Flow cytometric immunophenotyping and multiplex reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction assays were performed for 986 BCP-ALL cases.RESULTS: Among 986 BCP-ALL cases, the incidence of various fusion transcripts was 38.36% in adult cases and 20.68% in pediatric cases. Adult BCP-ALL patients with t(9;22)(BCR-ABL1) fusion transcripts and expression of aberrant myeloid markers were significantly older at presentation (p=0.0218) with male preponderance (p=0.0246) compared to those without aberrant myeloid expression. In pediatric patients with the t(12;21)(ETV6-RUNX1) chimeric fusion transcript, aberrant expression of CD13 was observed in 39.13%, CD33 in 36.95%, and CD117 in 8.69% of patients, respectively. Pediatric BCP-ALL patients with the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion transcript and expression of aberrant myeloid markers were not significantly different compared to those without with respect to demographic and clinical/hematological characteristics (p=0.5955). Aberrant myeloid markers were rarely or never expressed in pediatric and adult BCP-ALL patients with the t(4;11)(KTM2A-AF4) and t(1;19)(TCF3-PBX1) fusion transcripts.CONCLUSION: Aberrant myeloid markers were frequently expressed among BCP-ALL patients with the t(9;22)(BCR-ABL1) and t(12;21) (ETV6-RUNX1) fusion transcripts. However, BCP-ALL patients with the t(4;11)(KTM2A-AF4) and t(1;19)(TCF3-PBX1) fusion transcripts rarely or never expressed aberrant myeloid markers. Aberrant myeloid CD markers can be used in predicting chimeric fusion transcripts at baseline so as to plan appropriate tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy in cases of BCP-ALL with specific chimeric fusion transcripts. This study has delineated the relationship of chimeric fusion transcripts with the aberrant expression of myeloid markers in a large cohort of BCP-ALL cases.
Venetoclax (ven) plus azacitidine (aza) is the standard of care for patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are not candidates for intensive chemotherapy (IC). Some patients who are IC candidates instead receive ven/aza. We retrospectively analyzed patients with newly diagnosed AML who received ven/aza (n = 143) or IC (n = 149) to compare outcomes, seek variables that could predict response to 1 therapy or the other, and ascertain whether treatment recommendations could be refined. The response rates were 76.9% for ven/aza and 70.5% for IC. The median overall survival (OS) was 884 days for IC compared with 483 days for ven/aza (P = .0020). A propensity-matched cohort was used to compare outcomes in the setting of equivalent baseline variables, and when matched for age, biological risk, and transplantation, the median OS was 705 days for IC compared with not reached for ven/aza (P = .0667). Variables that favored response to ven/aza over IC included older age, secondary AML, and RUNX1 mutations. AML M5 favored response to IC over ven/aza. In the propensity-matched cohort analyzing OS, older age, adverse risk, and RUNX1 mutations favored ven/aza over IC, whereas intermediate risk favored IC over ven/aza. In conclusion, patients receiving IC have improved OS compared with those receiving ven/aza. However, in a propensity-matched cohort of patients with equivalent baseline factors, there was a trend toward favorable OS for ven/aza. Specific variables, such as RUNX1 mutations, reported here for the first time, can be identified that favor ven/aza or IC, helping to guide treatment decisions for patients who may be eligible candidates for either therapy.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) has a high degree of malignancy, which affects the quality of life and prognosis of patients with OSCC. Our study aimed to reveal the function of long non-coding RNA TTN-AS1/microRNA-199a-3p (miR-199a-3p)/runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) axis in OSCC progression, thereby providing a novel OSCC effective strategy. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blotting were performed to detect the expression of TTN-AS1, miR-199a-3p, and RUNX1 in OSCC. Several cell functional experiments, including Cell Counting Kit-8, flow cytometry, and cell adhesion assays, were used to assess cell proliferation, apoptosis, adhesion, and migration. A luciferase assay was performed to confirm the interaction between TTN-AS1, miR-199a-3p, and RUNX1. Our results revealed that TTN-AS1 and RUNX1 were upregulated in OSCC tissues and cells, whereas miR-199a-3p expression was downregulated. Knockdown of TTN-AS1 or RUNX1 suppressed cell proliferation, adhesion, and migration but induced apoptosis. Additionally, miR-199a-3p inhibitor partly relieved the effects of silencing TTN-AS1 and RUNX1 in OSCC cells due to their targeting relationship. In conclusion, TTN-AS1 and RUNX1 could promote OSCC progression and miR-199a-3p partly relieved the effects of TTN-AS1 and RUNX1.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Feb 10;139(6):807-809.
INTRODUCTION: One-quarter of the relapses in children with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) occur very early (within 18 months, before completion of treatment), and prognosis in these patients is worse compared to cases that relapse after treatment has ended.METHODS: In this study, we performed a genomic analysis of diagnosis-relapse pairs of 12 children who relapsed very early, followed by a deep-sequencing validation of all identified mutations. In addition, we included one case with a good initial treatment response and on-treatment relapse at the end of upfront therapy.RESULTS: We observed a dynamic clonal evolution in all cases, with relapse almost exclusively originating from a subclone at diagnosis. We identified several driver mutations that may have influenced the outgrowth of a minor clone at diagnosis to become the major clone at relapse. For example, a minimal residual disease (MRD)-based standard-risk patient with ETV6-RUNX1-positive leukemia developed a relapse from a TP53-mutated subclone after loss of the wildtype allele. Furthermore, two patients with TCF3-PBX1-positive leukemia that developed a very early relapse carried E1099K WHSC1 mutations at diagnosis, a hotspot mutation that was recurrently encountered in other very early TCF3-PBX1-positive leukemia relapses as well. In addition to alterations in known relapse drivers, we found two cases with truncating mutations in the cohesin gene RAD21.CONCLUSION: Comprehensive genomic characterization of diagnosis-relapse pairs shows that very early relapses in BCP-ALL frequently arise from minor subclones at diagnosis. A detailed understanding of the therapeutic pressure driving these events may aid the development of improved therapies.
Fibrosis is characterized by the excessive production of collagen and other extracellular matrix (ECM) components and represents a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Previous studies of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) with fibrosis were largely restricted to bulk transcriptome profiles. Thus, our understanding of this disease is limited by an incomplete characterization of liver cell types in general and hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) in particular, given that activated HSCs are the major hepatic fibrogenic cell population. To help fill this gap, we profiled 17,810 non-parenchymal cells derived from six healthy human livers. In conjunction with public single-cell data of fibrotic/cirrhotic human livers, these profiles enable the identification of potential intercellular signaling axes (e.g., ITGAV-LAMC1, TNFRSF11B-VWF and NOTCH2-DLL4) and master regulators (e.g., RUNX1 and CREB3L1) responsible for the activation of HSCs during fibrogenesis. Bulk RNA-seq data of NASH patient livers and rodent models for liver fibrosis of diverse etiologies allowed us to evaluate the translatability of candidate therapeutic targets for NASH-related fibrosis. We identified 61 liver fibrosis-associated genes (e.g., AEBP1, PRRX1 and LARP6) that may serve as a repertoire of translatable drug target candidates. Consistent with the above regulon results, gene regulatory network analysis allowed the identification of CREB3L1 as a master regulator of many of the 61 genes. Together, this study highlights potential cell-cell interactions and master regulators that underlie HSC activation and reveals genes that may represent prospective hallmark signatures for liver fibrosis.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare the changes in the lacrimal functional unit in the following two models of neurogenic dry eye syndrome: sensory denervation of the cornea versus autonomic denervation of the lacrimal gland.METHODS: The neural network supports the lacrimal functional unit. It can be divided into afferent (sensory) and efferent (autonomic) pathways and is affected by severe diseases that compromise the lacrimal functional unit. Male Wistar, 8-week-old rats were divided into the following three groups: 1) control naïve (n=16 animals); 2) autonomic denervation: where rats were subjected to right lacrimal gland nerve ablation and evaluated after 1 and 2 months (1M and 2M) after the procedure (n=7 animals per subgroup, autonomic denervation 1M and autonomic denervation 2M, respectively); 3) sensory denervation induced by 0.2% benzalkonium chloride eye drops, twice a day for 7 days in the right eye (n=10 animals). The corneal sensitivity was measured using the eye wipe test with capsaicin (10 µM). The quantitative real-time PCR was performed to compare the mRNA expressions of proinflammatory cytokines, such as Il-1β, Il-6, Tnf, Mmp9, in the cornea, trigeminal ganglion, and lacrimal gland. In addition, the mRNA of the promitotic factors in the lacrimal gland, such as Bmp7, Runx1, Runx3, Fgf10, and Smad1, was compared.RESULTS: Sensory denervation induced corneal hyperalgesia (p=0.001). Sensory denervation and autonomic denervation increased the mRNA of proinflammatory cytokines in the cornea and lacrimal gland (p<0.05), but only sensory denervation increased the mRNA levels of Il-1β and Tnf in the trigeminal ganglion (p<0.05) compared with the control naïve.CONCLUSIONS: Autonomic denervation and sensory denervation models can have common features, such as inflammation of different parts of the lacrimal functional unit. However, hyperesthesia and inflammatory markers in the trigeminal ganglion because of sensory denervation and the expression of regenerative mediators in the lacrimal gland owing to autonomic denervation are the distinguishing features of these diseases that can be explored in future studies assessing dry eye syndrome secondary to neural damage of the lacrimal functional unit.
Rare hematologic malignancies display evidence of both myeloid and lymphoid differentiation. Here, we describe such a novel bilineal event discovered in an adult woman with B-lymphoblastic leukemia (BLL). At the time of BLL diagnosis, the patient had a normal karyotype and a bulk sequencing panel identified pathogenic variants in BCOR, EZH2, RUNX1, and U2AF1, a genotype more typical of myeloid neoplasia. Additionally, the patient was noted to have 3-year history of cytopenias, and morphologic dyspoiesis was noted on post-treatment samples, raising the possibility of an antecedent hematologic disorder. To investigate the clonal architecture of her disease, we performed targeted sequencing on fractionated samples enriched for either B-lymphoblasts or circulating granulocytes. These studies revealed a truncal founder mutation in the spliceosome gene U2AF1 in both fractions, while distinct secondary mutations were present only in B-lymphoblasts (BCOR, NRAS) or myeloid cells (ASXL1, EZH2, RUNX1). These results indicate that both processes evolved from a common U2AF1-mutated precursor, which then acquired additional mutations during a process of divergent evolution and bilineal differentiation. Our findings highlight an atypical mechanism of BLL leukemogenesis and demonstrate the potential utility of fractionated sequencing in the characterization of acute leukemia.
Chromosome 21 is the most affected chromosome in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Many of its numerical and structural abnormalities define diagnostically and clinically important subgroups. To obtain an overview about their types and their approximate genetic subgroup-specific incidence and distribution, we performed cytogenetic, FISH and array analyses in a total of 578 ALL patients (including 26 with a constitutional trisomy 21). The latter is the preferred method to assess genome-wide large and fine-scale copy number abnormalities (CNA) together with their corresponding allele distribution patterns. We identified a total of 258 cases (49%) with chromosome 21-associated CNA, a number that is perhaps lower-than-expected because ETV6-RUNX1-positive cases (11%) were significantly underrepresented in this array-analyzed cohort. Our most interesting observations relate to hyperdiploid leukemias with tetra- and pentasomies of chromosome 21 that develop in constitutionally trisomic patients. Utilizing comparative short tandem repeat analyses, we were able to prove that switches in the array-derived allele patterns are in fact meiotic recombination sites, which only become evident in patients with inborn trisomies that result from a meiosis 1 error. The detailed analysis of such cases may eventually provide important clues about the respective maldistribution mechanisms and the operative relevance of chromosome 21-specific regions in hyperdiploid leukemias.
Acquired somatic mutations are crucial for the development of most cancers. We performed a comprehensive comparative analysis of the mutational landscapes and their correlation with CHIP-related (clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential) mutations and patient age of 122 genes in 3096 cases of 28 different hematological malignancies. Differences were observed regarding (1) the median number of mutations (highest, median n = 4; lowest, n = 0); (2) specificity of certain mutations (high frequencies in atypical chronic myeloid leukemia [aCML; ASXL1, 86%], follicular lymphoma [FL; KMT2D, 87%; CREBBP, 73%], hairy cell lymphoma [BRAF, 100%], lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma [MYD88, 98%; CXCR4, 51%], myeloproliferative neoplasm [MPN; AK2, 68%]); (3) distribution of mutations (broad distribution within/across the myeloid/lymphoid lineage for TET2, ASXL1, DNMT3A, TP53, BCOR, and ETV6); (4) correlation of mutations with patient's age (correlated with older age across entities: TET2, DNMT3A, ASXL1, TP53, EZH2, BCOR, GATA2, and IDH2; younger age: KIT, POT1, RAD21, U2AF2, and WT1); (5) correlation of mutation number per patient with age. Moreover, we observed high frequencies of mutations in RUNX1, SRSF2, IDH2, NRAS, and EZH2 in cases comprising at least 1 DTA (DNMT3A, TET2, ASXL1) mutation, whereas in cases without DTA mutations, TP53, KRAS, WT1, and SF3B1 were more frequent across entities, suggesting differences in pathophysiology. These results give further insight into the complex genetic landscape and the role of DTA mutations in hematological neoplasms and define mutation-driven entities (myelodysplastic syndrome/MPN overlap; secondary acute myeloid) in comparison with entities defined by chromosomal fusions (chronic myeloid leukemia; myeloid/lymphoid neoplasm with eosinophilia).
Despite absent expression in normal hematopoiesis, the Forkhead factor FOXC1, a critical mesenchymal differentiation regulator, is highly expressed in ∼30% of HOXAhigh acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cases to confer blocked monocyte/macrophage differentiation. Through integrated proteomics and bioinformatics, we find that FOXC1 and RUNX1 interact through Forkhead and Runt domains, respectively, and co-occupy primed and active enhancers distributed close to differentiation genes. FOXC1 stabilizes association of RUNX1, HDAC1, and Groucho repressor TLE3 to limit enhancer activity: FOXC1 knockdown induces loss of repressor proteins, gain of CEBPA binding, enhancer acetylation, and upregulation of nearby genes, including KLF2. Furthermore, it triggers genome-wide redistribution of RUNX1, TLE3, and HDAC1 from enhancers to promoters, leading to repression of self-renewal genes, including MYC and MYB. Our studies highlight RUNX1 and CEBPA transcription factor swapping as a feature of leukemia cell differentiation and reveal that FOXC1 prevents this by stabilizing enhancer binding of a RUNX1/HDAC1/TLE3 transcription repressor complex to oncogenic effect.
Author information:(1)The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Jiangsu Institute of Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Diseases, NHC Key Laboratory of Thrombosis and Hemostasis, Suzhou 215006, China.
Among the recently described subtypes in childhood B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) were DUX4- and PAX5-altered (PAX5alt). By using whole transcriptome RNA sequencing in 377 children with B-ALL from the Malaysia-Singapore ALL 2003 (MS2003) and Malaysia-Singapore ALL 2010 (MS2010) studies, we found that, after hyperdiploid and ETV6-RUNX1, the third and fourth most common subtypes were DUX4 (n = 51; 14%) and PAX5alt (n = 36; 10%). DUX4 also formed the largest genetic subtype among patients with poor day-33 minimal residual disease (MRD; n = 12 of 44). But despite the poor MRD, outcome of DUX4 B-ALL was excellent (5-year cumulative risk of relapse [CIR], 8.9%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.8%-19.5% and 5-year overall survival, 97.8%; 95% CI, 85.3%-99.7%). In MS2003, 21% of patients with DUX4 B-ALL had poor peripheral blood response to prednisolone at day 8, higher than other subtypes (8%; P = .03). In MS2010, with vincristine at day 1, no day-8 poor peripheral blood response was observed in the DUX4 subtype (P = .03). The PAX5alt group had an intermediate risk of relapse (5-year CIR, 18.1%) but when IKZF1 was not deleted, outcome was excellent with no relapse among 23 patients. Compared with MS2003, outcome of PAX5alt B-ALL with IKZF1 codeletion was improved by treatment intensification in MS2010 (5-year CIR, 80.0% vs 0%; P = .05). In conclusion, despite its poor initial response, DUX4 B-ALL had a favorable overall outcome, and the prognosis of PAX5alt was strongly dependent on IKZF1 codeletion.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the role of chidamide, decitabine plus priming regimen in the salvage treatment of relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia.METHODS: A clinical trial was conducted in relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia patients using chidamide, decitabine, cytarabine, idarubicin, and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, termed CDIAG, a double epigenetic priming regimen.RESULTS: Thirty-five patients were recruited. Three patients received 2 treatment cycles. In 32 evaluable patients and 35 treatment courses, the completed remission rate (CRR) was 42.9%. The median OS time was 11.7 months. The median OS times of responders were 18.4 months, while those of nonresponders were 7.4 months (P = 0.015). The presence of RUNX1 mutations was associated with a high CRR but a short 2-year OS (P = 0.023) and PFS (P = 0.018) due to relapse after treatment. The presence of IDH mutations had no effect on the remission rate (80.0% vs. 73.3%), but showed a better OS (2-year OS rate: 100.0% vs. 28.9%). Grade 3/4 nonhematological adverse events included pneumonia, hematosepsis, febrile neutropenia, skin and soft tissue infection and others.CONCLUSION: The double epigenetic priming regimen (CDIAG regimen) showed considerably good antileukemia activity in these patients. Adverse events were acceptable according to previous experience. The study was registered as a clinical trial.CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: https://clinicaltrials.gov/, identifier:NCT03985007.
Acute leukemia of ambiguous lineage (ALAL) is a rare type of leukemia and represents an unmet clinical need. In fact, due to heterogeneity, substantial rarity and absence of clinical trials, there are no therapeutic guidelines available. We investigated the genetic basis of 10 cases of ALAL diagnosed at our centre from 2008 and 2020, through a targeted myeloid and lymphoid sequencing approach. We show that this rare group of acute leukemias is enriched in myeloid-gene mutations. In particular we found that RUNX1 mutations, which have been found double mutated in 40% of patients and tend to involve both alleles, are associated with an undifferentiated phenotype and with lineage ambiguity. Furthermore, because this feature is typical of acute myeloid leukemia with minimal differentiation, we believe that our data strengthen the idea that acute leukemia with ambiguous lineage, especially those with an undifferentiated phenotype, might be genetically more closer to acute myeloid leukemia rather than acute lymphoblastic leukemia. These data enrich the knowledge on the genetic basis of ALAL and could have clinical implications as an acute myeloid leukemia (AML) - oriented chemotherapeutic approach might be more appropriate.
Increasing evidence supports the role of the immune microenvironment and associated signalling in the pathogenesis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Nevertheless, the clinical relevancy of immune signals in patients with MDS remains elusive. To address this, we used single-sample gene-set enrichment analysis to score immune signatures of bone marrow (BM) samples from 176 patients with primary MDS. Enhanced signatures of 'immature dendritic cells' and 'natural killer cells with cluster of differentiation (CD)56bright' were correlated with better overall survival (OS), whilst higher 'CD103+ signature' was associated with reduced survival. An MDS-Immune-Risk (MIR) scoring system was constructed based on the weighted sums derived from Cox regression analysis. High MIR scores were correlated with higher revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R) scores and mutations in ASXL transcriptional regulator 1 (ASXL1), Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), and tumour protein p53 (TP53). High-score patients had significantly inferior leukaemia-free survival (LFS) and OS than low-score patients. The prognostic significance of MIR scores for survival remained valid across IPSS-R subgroups and was validated in two independent cohorts. Multivariable analysis revealed that a higher MIR score was an independent adverse risk factor for LFS and OS. We further proposed a model with the combination of MIR score and gene mutations to be complementary to IPSS-R for the prognostication of LFS and OS of patients with MDS.
Comment in    Blood. 2022 Jan 20;139(3):308-310.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology/Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders/National Clinical Research Center for Child Health and Disorders/China International Science and Technology Cooperation Base of Child Development and Critical Disorders/Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University/Chongqing Key Laboratory of Pediatrics, Chongqing 400014, China.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is an aggressive disease in which survival after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) remains relatively poor. An assessment of prognostic factors is an important part of treatment decision making and has the potential to be greatly improved by the inclusion of molecular genetics. However, there is a significant knowledge gap in the interpretation of mutational patterns. This study aimed to describe outcomes of allogeneic HCT in patients with CMML in relation to clinical and molecular genetic risk factors. This retrospective study included 64 patients with CMML who underwent allogeneic HCT between 2008 and 2018, with a median follow-up of 5.4 years. Next-generation sequencing using targeted myeloid panels was carried out on saved material from 51 patients from the time of transplantation. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression were used for analysis of overall survival (OS), and cumulative incidence with competing risks and Fine and Gray models were used for analysis of relapse and nonrelapse mortality (NRM). Mutations were detected in 48 patients (94%), indicating high levels of minimal residual disease (MRD) positivity at transplantation, even among those in complete remission (CR) (n = 14), 86% of whom had detectable mutations. The most frequently mutated genes were ASXL1 (37%), TET2 (37%), RUNX1 (33%), SRSF2 (26%), and NRAS (20%). Risk stratification using the CMML-specific Prognostic Scoring System molecular score (CPSS-Mol) resulted in 45% of patients moving to a higher risk-group compared with risk stratification using the CPSS. High leucocyte count (≥13 × 109/L), transfusion requirement, and previous intensive chemotherapy were associated with higher incidence of relapse. Being in CR was not linked to better outcomes. Neither ASXL1 nor RUNX1 mutation was associated with a difference in OS, relapse, or NRM, despite being high risk in the nontransplantation setting. TET2 mutations were associated with a significantly higher 3-year OS (73% versus 40%; P = .039). Achieving MRD-negative CR was rare in this CMML cohort, which may explain why we did not observe better outcomes for those in CR. This merits further investigation. Our analyses suggest that the negative impact of ASXL1 and RUNX1 mutations can be overcome by allogeneic HCT; however, risk stratification is complex in CMML and requires larger cohorts and multivariate models, presenting an ongoing challenge in this rare disease.
Translocation t(4;12)(q11-13;p13) is a recurrent but very rare chromosomal aberration in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) resulting in the non-constant expression of a CHIC2/ETV6 fusion transcript. We report clinico-biological features, molecular characteristics and outcomes of 21 cases of t(4;12) including 19 AML and two myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Median age at the time of t(4;12) was 78 years (range, 56-88). Multilineage dysplasia was described in 10 of 19 (53%) AML cases and CD7 and/or CD56 expression in 90%. FISH analyses identified ETV6 and CHIC2 region rearrangements in respectively 18 of 18 and 15 of 17 studied cases. The t(4;12) was the sole cytogenetic abnormality in 48% of cases. The most frequent associated mutated genes were ASXL1 (n = 8/16, 50%), IDH1/2 (n = 7/16, 44%), SRSF2 (n = 5/16, 31%) and RUNX1 (n = 4/16, 25%). Interestingly, concurrent FISH and molecular analyses showed that t(4;12) can be, but not always, a founding oncogenic event. Median OS was 7.8 months for the entire cohort. In the 16 of 21 patients (76%) who received antitumoral treatment, overall response and first complete remission rates were 37% and 31%, respectively. Median progression-free survival in responders was 13.7 months. Finally, t(4;12) cases harboured many characteristics of AML with myelodysplasia-related changes (multilineage dysplasia, MDS-related cytogenetic abnormalities, frequent ASXL1 mutations) and a poor prognosis.
RUNX1 is essential for the generation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Runx1-null mouse embryos lack definitive hematopoiesis and die in mid-gestation. However, although zebrafish embryos with a runx1 W84X mutation have defects in early definitive hematopoiesis, some runx1W84X/W84X embryos can develop to fertile adults with blood cells of multilineages, raising the possibility that HSCs can emerge without RUNX1. Here, using 3 new zebrafish runx1-/- lines, we uncovered the compensatory mechanism for runx1-independent hematopoiesis. We show that, in the absence of a functional runx1, a cd41-green fluorescent protein (GFP)+ population of hematopoietic precursors still emerge from the hemogenic endothelium and can colonize the hematopoietic tissues of the mutant embryos. Single-cell RNA sequencing of the cd41-GFP+ cells identified a set of runx1-/--specific signature genes during hematopoiesis. Significantly, gata2b, which normally acts upstream of runx1 for the generation of HSCs, was increased in the cd41-GFP+ cells in runx1-/- embryos. Interestingly, genetic inactivation of both gata2b and its paralog gata2a did not affect hematopoiesis. However, knocking out runx1 and any 3 of the 4 alleles of gata2a and gata2b abolished definitive hematopoiesis. Gata2 expression was also upregulated in hematopoietic cells in Runx1-/- mice, suggesting the compensatory mechanism is conserved. Our findings indicate that RUNX1 and GATA2 serve redundant roles for HSC production, acting as each other's safeguard.
Runt-related transcription factors (RUNXs) can serve as both transcription activators and repressors during biological development, including immune cell maturation. RUNX factors have both tumor-promoting and tumor-suppressive roles in carcinogenesis. Immune cell infiltration and the tumor immune microenvironment have been found to be key regulators in breast cancer progression, treatment response, and patient outcome. However, the relationship between the RUNX family and immune cell infiltration in breast cancer remains unclear. We performed a comprehensive analysis to reveal the role of RUNX factors in breast cancer. Analysis of patient data in the Oncomine database showed that the transcriptional levels of RUNX proteins in breast cancer were elevated. Kaplan-Meier plotter (KM plotter) analysis showed that breast cancer patients with higher expression of RUNX proteins had better survival outcomes. Through analysis of the UALCAN database, we found that the transcriptional levels of RUNX factors were significantly correlated with some breast cancer patient characteristics. cBio Cancer Genomics Portal (cBioPortal) analysis showed the proportions of different RUNX genomic alterations in various subclasses of breast cancer. We also performed gene ontology (GO) and pathway analyses for the significantly differentially expressed genes that were correlated with RUNX factors in breast cancer. TIMER database analysis showed that immune cell infiltration in breast cancer could be affected by the transcriptional level, mutation, and gene copy number of RUNX proteins. Using the Gene Set Cancer Analysis (GSCA) database, we analyzed the effects of RUNX gene methylation on the level of immune cell infiltration in breast cancer. We found that the methylation level changes of RUNX2 and RUNX3 had opposite effects on immune cell infiltration in breast cancer. We also analyzed the relationship between the methylation level of RUNX genes and the TGF-β signaling pathway using the TISIDB database. The results showed that the methylation levels of RUNX1 and RUNX3 were correlated with the expression of TGF-β1. In summary, our analysis found that the RUNX family members can influence the infiltration of various immune cells in breast cancer depending on their expression level, mutation, gene copy number, and methylation. The RUNX family is an important regulator of immune cell infiltration in breast cancer and may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker.
Mechanisms underlying the regulation of gene expression in cancer have been surveyed for decades to find novel prognostic factors and new targets for molecular targeted therapies in cancer. Because most cases of liver cancer are associated with liver cirrhosis, we aimed to analyze the gene expression signatures and the gene regulatory mechanism in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) on a cirrhotic background using high-throughput data analysis. In the present study, three valid array-based datasets containing HCC and liver cirrhosis samples were obtained to identify common differentially expressed genes (DEGs). Moreover, a comprehensive data analysis was conducted based on RNA-Seq data and using Kaplan-Meier curve analysis to find molecular signatures that reduce patients' survival rate. Furthermore, we proposed a gene regulatory network (GRN) to explore the possible regulatory mechanism of these molecular signatures by transcription factors in HCC progression from cirrhosis. Besides, we analyzed protein-protein interactions, gene ontology (GO), and pathway enrichment to elucidate the cellular and molecular function of the GRN elements in HCC. In this way, we found a list of 231 molecular signatures in HCC derived from cirrhosis. We also found the importance of TCF4, RUNX1, HINFP, KDM2B, MAF, JUN, NR5A2, NFYA, and AR as key differentially expressed transcription factors (DETFs) in the progression of HCC from cirrhosis. In conclusion, the identified molecular signatures and their transcription factors propose candidate prognostic markers and possible molecular targets in the progression of HCC.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a bone marrow malignancy having multiple molecular pathways driving its progress. In recent years, the main causes of AML considered all over the world are genetic variations in cancerous cells. The RUNX1 and FLT3 genes are necessary for the normal hematopoiesis and differentiation process of hematopoietic stem cells into mature blood cells, therefore they are the most common targets for point mutations resulting in AML.METHODS: We screened 32 CN-AML patients for FLT3-ITD (by Allele-specific PCR) and RUNX1 mutations (by Sanger sequencing). The FLT3 mRNA expression was assessed in all AML patients and its subgroups.RESULTS: Eight patients (25%) carried RUNX1 mutation (K83E) while three patients (9.37%) were found to have internal tandem duplications in FLT3 gene. The RUNX1 mutation data were correlated with clinical parameters and FLT3 gene expression profile. The RUNX1 mutations were observed to be significantly prevalent in older males. Moreover, RUNX1 and FLT3-mutated patients had lower complete remission rate, event-free survival rate, and lower overall survival rate than patients with wild-type RUNX1 and FLT3 gene. The RUNX1 and FLT3 mutant patients with up-regulated FLT3 gene expression showed even worse prognosis. Bradford Assay showed that protein concentration was down-regulated in RUNX1 and FLT3 mutants in comparison to RUNX1 and FLT3 wild-type groups.CONCLUSION: This study constitutes the first report from Pakistan reporting significant molecular mutation analysis of RUNX1 and FLT3 genes including FLT3 expression evaluation with follow-up. This provides an insight that aforementioned mutations are markers of poor prognosis but the study with a large AML cohort will be useful to further investigate their role in disease biology of AML.
Ineffective hematopoiesis is a fundamental process leading to the pathogenesis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). However, the pathobiological mediators of ineffective hematopoiesis in MDS remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that overwhelming mitochondrial fragmentation in mutant hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors (HSC/P) triggers ineffective hematopoiesis in MDS. Mouse modeling of CBL exon deletion with RUNX1 mutants, previously unreported comutations in patients with MDS, recapitulated not only clinically relevant MDS phenotypes but also a distinct MDS-related gene signature. Mechanistically, dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1)-dependent excessive mitochondrial fragmentation in HSC/Ps led to excessive reactive oxygen species production, induced inflammatory signaling activation, and promoted subsequent dysplasia formation and impairment of granulopoiesis. Mitochondrial fragmentation was generally observed in patients with MDS. Pharmacologic inhibition of DRP1 attenuated mitochondrial fragmentation and rescued ineffective hematopoiesis phenotypes in mice with MDS. These findings provide mechanistic insights into ineffective hematopoiesis and indicate that dysregulated mitochondrial dynamics could be a therapeutic target for bone marrow failure in MDS. SIGNIFICANCE: We demonstrated that excessive mitochondrial fragmentation is a fundamental pathobiological phenomenon that could trigger dysplasia formation and ineffective hematopoiesis in MDS. Our findings provide mechanistic insights into ineffective hematopoiesis and suggest dysregulated mitochondrial dynamics as a therapeutic target for treating MDS.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1.
Our understanding of cell fate decisions in hematopoietic stem cells is incomplete. Here, we show that the transcription factor Helios is highly expressed in murine hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs), where it is required to suppress the separation of the platelet/megakaryocyte lineage from the HSPC pool. Helios acts mainly in quiescent cells, where it directly represses the megakaryocyte gene expression program in cells as early as the stem cell stage. Helios binding promotes chromatin compaction, notably at the regulatory regions of platelet-specific genes recognized by the Gata2 and Runx1 transcriptional activators, implicated in megakaryocyte priming. Helios null HSPCs are biased toward the megakaryocyte lineage at the expense of the lymphoid and partially resemble cells of aging animals. We propose that Helios acts as a guardian of HSPC pluripotency by continuously repressing the megakaryocyte fate, which in turn allows downstream lymphoid priming to take place. These results highlight the importance of negative and positive priming events in lineage commitment.
We evaluated the mutational landscape of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) and its potential clinical significance. We analyzed 47 samples with a panel of 112 genes using next-generation sequencing. Forty-five of the 47 patients (95.74%) had at least one mutation identified, with an average of 3.7 (range 0-9) per patient. The most common mutation was NRAS, followed by ASXL1, TET2, SRSF2, RUNX1, KRAS, and SETBP1. Patients 60 years and older more frequently had mutations in TET2 (56% vs. 9.09%, P = 0.001) and ASXL1 (48% vs. 18.18%, P = 0.031) than patients younger than 60 years. Median overall survival (OS) in patients with CMML was 22.0 months (95% CI 19.7-24.3 months). ASXL1 (18 vs. 22 months, P = 0.012), RUNX1 (17 vs. 22 months, P = 0.001), and SETBP1 (20 vs. 27 months, P = 0.032) mutations predicted inferior OS. However, only RUNX1 mutation was significantly associated with inferior acute myeloid leukemia (AML)-free survival. Our data showed that mutation profile differed significantly between CMML patients aged 60 years and older versus those younger than 60 years, and some of these mutations impact the progression and prognosis of the disease to a certain extent.
Splicing factor (SF) mutations are important contributors to the pathogenesis of hematological malignancies; however, their relevance in risk classification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) warrants further investigation. To gain more insight into the characteristics of patients with AML carrying SF mutations, we studied their association with clinical features, cytogenetic and molecular abnormalities, and clinical outcome in a large cohort of 1447 patients with AML and high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome. SF mutations were identified in 22% of patients and were associated with multiple unfavorable clinical features, such as older age, antecedent myeloid disorders, and adverse risk factors (mutations in RUNX1 and ASXL1). Furthermore, they had significantly shorter event-free and overall survival. Notably, in European LeukemiaNet (ELN) 2017 favorable- and intermediate-risk groups, SF3B1 mutations were indicative of relatively poor prognosis. In addition, patients carrying concomitant SF mutations and RUNX1 mutations had a particularly adverse prognosis. In patients without any of the 4 most common SF mutations, RUNX1 mutations were associated with relatively good outcome, which was comparable to that of intermediate-risk patients. In this study, we propose that SF mutations be considered for incorporation into prognostic classification systems. First, SF3B1 mutations could be considered an intermediate prognostic factor when co-occurring with favorable risk features and as an adverse prognostic factor for patients currently categorized as having intermediate risk, according to the ELN 2017 classification. Second, the prognostic value of the current adverse factor RUNX1 mutations seems to be limited to its co-occurrence with SF mutations.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX1) regulates inflammation in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).METHODS: We performed in vivo targeted silencing of the RUNX1 gene in liver sinusoidal endothelial cells (LSECs) by using vegfr3 antibody tagged immunonano-lipocarriers encapsulated RUNX1 siRNA (RUNX1 siRNA) in murine models of methionine choline deficient (MCD) diet-induced NASH. MCD mice given nanolipocarriers-encapsulated negative siRNA were vehicle, and mice with standard diet were controls.RESULTS: Liver RUNX1 expression was increased in the LSECs of MCD mice in comparison to controls. RUNX1 protein expression was decreased by 40% in CD31-positive LSECs of RUNX1 siRNA mice in comparison to vehicle, resulting in the downregulation of adhesion molecules, ICAM1 expression, and VCAM1 expression in LSECs. There was a marked decrease in infiltrated T cells and myeloid cells along with reduced inflammatory cytokines in the liver of RUNX1 siRNA mice as compared to that observed in the vehicle.CONCLUSIONS: In vivo LSEC-specific silencing of RUNX1 using immunonano-lipocarriers encapsulated siRNA effectively reduces its expression of adhesion molecules, infiltrate on of immune cells in liver, and inflammation in NASH.
The identification of cancer stem cells in brain tumors paved the way for new therapeutic approaches. Recently, a role for the transcriptional factor Runx1/Aml1 and the downstream ion channel genes in brain cancer development and progression has been suggested. This study aimed to explore the expression and the role of Runx1/Aml1, its Aml1b and Aml1c splice variants and the downstream TRPA1 and TRPV1 ion channels in undifferentiated and day-14 differentiated neural stem cells (NSCs and D-NSCs) and glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs and D-GSCs) lines with different proneural (PN) or mesenchymal (MES) phenotype. Gene and protein expression were evaluated by qRT-PCR, cytofluorimetric, western blot and confocal microscopy analyses. Moreover, by western blot, we observed that ERK phosphorylation enhances the Aml1b and Aml1c protein expression during glioma differentiation. Furthermore, the agonists of TRPA1 and TRPV1 channels stimulated apoptosis/necrosis in GSCs and D-GSCs as evaluated by Annexin V and PI staining and cytofluorimetric analysis. Finally, by qRT-PCR, the modulation of Wnt/β catenin, FGF, and TGFβ/SMAD signaling pathways in PN- and MES-GSCs was reported. Overall, our results provide new evidence regarding Runx1/Aml1 isoform overexpression and modulation in TRP channel expression during gliomagenesis, thus offering new directions for glioblastoma therapy.
The RUNX1/AML1 gene encodes a developmental transcription factor that is an important regulator of haematopoiesis in vertebrates. Genetic disruptions to the RUNX1 gene are frequently associated with acute myeloid leukaemia. Gene regulatory elements (REs), such as enhancers located in non-coding DNA, are likely to be important for Runx1 transcription. Non-coding elements that modulate Runx1 expression have been investigated over several decades, but how and when these REs function remains poorly understood. Here we used bioinformatic methods and functional data to characterise the regulatory landscape of vertebrate Runx1. We identified REs that are conserved between human and mouse, many of which produce enhancer RNAs in diverse tissues. Genome-wide association studies detected single nucleotide polymorphisms in REs, some of which correlate with gene expression quantitative trait loci in tissues in which the RE is active. Our analyses also suggest that REs can be variant in haematological malignancies. In summary, our analysis identifies features of the RUNX1 regulatory landscape that are likely to be important for the regulation of this gene in normal and malignant haematopoiesis.
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a clonal disease arising from hematopoietic stem cells, that are characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis (leading to peripheral blood cytopenia) and by an increased risk of evolution into acute myeloid leukemia. MDS are driven by a complex combination of genetic mutations that results in heterogeneous clinical phenotype and outcome. Genetic studies have enabled the identification of a set of recurrently mutated genes which are central to the pathogenesis of MDS and can be organized into a limited number of cellular pathways, including RNA splicing (SF3B1, SRSF2, ZRSR2, U2AF1 genes), DNA methylation (TET2, DNMT3A, IDH1/2), transcription regulation (RUNX1), signal transduction (CBL, RAS), DNA repair (TP53), chromatin modification (ASXL1, EZH2), and cohesin complex (STAG2). Few genes are consistently mutated in >10% of patients, whereas a long tail of 40-50 genes are mutated in <5% of cases. At diagnosis, the majority of MDS patients have 2-4 driver mutations and hundreds of background mutations. Reliable genotype/phenotype relationships were described in MDS: SF3B1 mutations are associated with the presence of ring sideroblasts and more recent studies indicate that other splicing mutations (SRSF2, U2AF1) may identify distinct disease categories with specific hematological features. Moreover, gene mutations have been shown to influence the probability of survival and risk of disease progression and mutational status may add significant information to currently available prognostic tools. For instance, SF3B1 mutations are predictors of favourable prognosis, while driver mutations of other genes (such as ASXL1, SRSF2, RUNX1, TP53) are associated with a reduced probability of survival and increased risk of disease progression. In this article, we review the most recent advances in our understanding of the genetic basis of myelodysplastic syndromes and discuss its clinical relevance.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation of osteoclast biology and several pathogenic progression. This study aimed to identify the role of miR-26a in osteoclastogenesis and orthodontically induced inflammatory root resorption(OIIRR).METHODS: Rat orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model was established by ligating a closed coil spring between maxillary first molar and incisor, and 50 g orthodontic force was applied to move upper first molar to middle for 7 days. Human periodontal ligament (hPDL) cells were isolated from periodontium of healthy donors, and then subjected to compression force (CF) for 24 h to mimic an in vitro OTM model. The levels of associated factors in vivo and in vitro were measured subsequently.RESULT: The distance of tooth movement was increased and root resorption pits were occurred in rat OTM model. The expression of miR-26a was decreased in vivo and vitro experiments. CF treatment enhanced the secretion of inflammatory factors receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappa B ligand (RANKL) and IL-6, osteoclast marker levels, and the number of tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase (TRAP)-positive osteoclasts, while miR-26a overexpression reversed these results. Furthermore, miR-26a overexpression inhibited the osteoclastogenesis and rescued the root resorption in OTM rats through inhibition of Jagged1. Additionally, Runx1 could bind to miR-26a promoter and promote its expression, thereby suppressing the osteoclastogenesis.CONCLUSION: We concluded that Runx1/miR-26a/Jagged1 signaling axis restrained osteoclastogenesis and alleviated OIIRR.
Erratum in    Front Mol Biosci. 2022 Feb 16;9:834509.
Germline RUNX1 mutations underlie a syndrome, RUNX1-familial platelet disorder (RUNX1-FPD), characterized by bleeding symptoms that result from quantitative and/or qualitative defect in platelets and a significantly increased risk for developing hematologic malignancies. Myeloid neoplasms are the most commonly diagnosed hematologic malignancies, followed by lymphoid malignancies of T-cell origin. Here, we describe the first 2 cases of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) in patients with confirmed germline RUNX1 mutations. While 1 of the patients had a known diagnosis of RUNX1-FPD with a RUNX1 p.P240Hfs mutation, the other was the index patient of a kindred with a novel RUNX1 variant, RUNX1 c.587C>T (p.T196I), noted on a targeted genetic testing of the B-ALL diagnostic sample. We discuss the clinical course, treatment approaches, and the outcome for the 2 patients. Additionally, we describe transient resolution of the mild thrombocytopenia and bleeding symptoms during therapy, as well as the finding of clonal hematopoiesis with a TET2 mutant clone in 1 of the patients. It is critical to consider testing for germline RUNX1 mutations in patients presenting with B-ALL who have a personal or family history of thrombocytopenia, bleeding symptoms, or RUNX1 variants identified on genetic testing at diagnosis.
Runx proteins (also known as Runt-domain transcription factors) have been studied for a long time as key regulators of cellular differentiation. RUNX2 has been described as essential for osteogenesis, whereas RUNX1 and RUNX3 are known to control blood cell development during different stages of cell lineage specification. However, recent studies show evidence of complex relationships between RUNX proteins, chromatin-modifying machinery, the cytoskeleton and different transcription factors in various non-embryonic contexts, including mature T cell homeostasis, inflammation and cancer. In this review, we discuss the diversity of Runx functions in mature T helper cells, such as production of cytokines and chemokines by different CD4 T cell populations; apoptosis; and immunologic memory acquisition. We then briefly cover recent findings about the contribution of RUNX1, RUNX2 and RUNX3 to various immunologic diseases. Finally, we discuss areas that require further study to better understand the role that Runx proteins play in inflammation and immunity.
Recent research has focused on the mechanisms by which long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) modulate diverse cellular processes such as tumorigenesis. However, the functional characteristics of these non-coding elements in the genome are poorly understood at present. In this study, we have explored several mechanisms that involve the novel lncRNA and microRNA (miRNA) axis participating in modulation of drug response and the tumor microenvironment of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs). We identified novel lncRNAs via mRNA sequencing that was applied to leukemic cell lines derived from BCR-ABL1-positive and JAK2-mutant MPNs under treatment with therapeutic tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI). The expression and sequence of novel LNC000093 were further validated in both leukemic cells and normal primary and pluripotent cells isolated from human blood, including samples from patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Downregulation of LNC000093 was validated in TKI-resistant CML while a converse expression pattern was observed in blood cells isolated from TKI-sensitive CML cases. In addition to BCR-ABL1-positive CML cells, the driver mutation JAK2-V617F-regulated lncRNA BANCR axis was further identified in BCR-ABL1-negative MPNs. Further genome-wide validation using MPN patient specimens identified 23 unique copy number variants including the 7 differentially expressed lncRNAs from our database. The newly identified LNC000093 served as a competitive endogenous RNA for miR-675-5p and reversed the imatinib resistance in CML cells through regulating RUNX1 expression. The extrinsic function of LNC000093 in exosomal H19/miR-675-induced modulation for the microenvironment was also determined with significant effect on VEGF expression.
Germline predisposition syndromes (GPS) result from constitutional aberrations in tumor suppressive and homeostatic genes, increasing risk for neoplasia in affected kindred. In this study, we present clinical and genomic data on 144 Mayo Clinic patients with GPS; 59 evaluated prospectively using an algorithm-based diagnostic approach in the setting of a dedicated GPS/ inherited bone marrow failure syndrome (IBMFS) clinic. Seventy-two (50%) patients had IBMFS (telomere biology disorders-32,Fanconi anemia-18, Diamond Blackfan Anemia - 11, congenital neutropenia-5, Schwachman-Diamond Syndrome-5 and Bloom Syndrome-1), 27 (19%) had GPS with antecedent thrombocytopenia (RUNX1-FPD-15, ANKRD26-6, ETV6-2, GATA1-1, MPL-3), 28 (19%) had GPS without antecedent thrombocytopenia (GATA2 haploinsufficiency-16, DDX41-10, CBL-1 and CEBPA-1) and 17 (12%) had general cancer predisposition syndromes (ataxia telangiectasia-7, heterozygous ATM variants-3, CHEK2-2, TP53-2, CDK2NA-1, NF1-1 and Nijmegen Breakage Syndrome-1). Homozygous and heterozygous ATM pathogenic variants were exclusively associated with lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD), while DDX41 GPS was associated with LPD and myeloid neoplasms. The use of somatic NGS-testing identified clonal evolution in GPS patients, with ASXL1, RAS pathway genes, SRSF2 and TET2 being most frequently mutated. Fifty-two (91%) of 59 prospectively identified GPS patients had a change in their management approach, including additional GPS-related screening in 42 (71%), referral for allogenic HSCT workup and screening of related donors in 16 (27%), medication initiation and selection of specific conditioning regimens in 14 (24%), and genetic counseling with specific intent of fertility preservation and preconceptual counseling in 10 (17%) patients; highlighting the importance of dedicated GPS screening, detection and management programs for patients with hematological neoplasms.
Next generation sequencing has uncovered several genes with associated mutations in hematologic malignancies that can serve as potential biomarkers of disease. Keeping abreast of these genes is therefore of paramount importance in the field of hematology. This review focuses on PHF6, a highly conserved epigenetic transcriptional regulator that is important for neurodevelopment and hematopoiesis. PHF6 serves as a tumor suppressor protein, with PHF6 mutations and deletions often implicated in the development of T-lymphoblastic leukemia and less frequently in acute myeloid leukemia and other myeloid neoplasms. PHF6 inactivation appears to be an early event in T-lymphoblastic leukemogenesis, requiring cooperating events, including NOTCH1 mutations or overexpression of TLX1 and TLX3 for full disease development. In contrast, PHF6 mutations tend to occur later in myeloid malignancies, are frequently accompanied by RUNX1 mutations, and are often associated with disease progression. Moreover, PHF6 appears to play a role in lineage plasticity within hematopoietic malignancies, with PHF6 mutations commonly present in mixed phenotype acute leukemias with a predilection for T-lineage marker expression. Due to conflicting data, the prognostic significance of PHF6 mutations remains unclear, with a subset of studies showing no significant difference in outcomes compared to malignancies with wild-type PHF6, and other studies showing inferior outcomes in certain patients with mutated PHF6. Future studies are necessary to elucidate the role PHF6 plays in development of T-lymphoblastic leukemia, progression of myeloid malignancies, and its overall prognostic significance in hematopoietic neoplasms.
Colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRCLM) has two major histopathological growth patterns: angiogenic desmoplastic and non-angiogenic replacement. The replacement lesions obtain their blood supply through vessel co-option, wherein the cancer cells hijack pre-existing blood vessels of the surrounding liver tissue. Consequentially, anti-angiogenic therapies are less efficacious in CRCLM patients with replacement lesions. However, the mechanisms which drive vessel co-option in the replacement lesions are unknown. Here, we show that Runt Related Transcription Factor-1 (RUNX1) overexpression in the cancer cells of the replacement lesions drives cancer cell motility via ARP2/3 to achieve vessel co-option. Furthermore, overexpression of RUNX1 in the cancer cells is mediated by Transforming Growth Factor Beta-1 (TGFβ1) and thrombospondin 1 (TSP1). Importantly, RUNX1 knockdown impaired the metastatic capability of colorectal cancer cells in vivo and induced the development of angiogenic lesions in liver. Our results confirm that RUNX1 may be a potential target to overcome vessel co-option in CRCLM.
BACKGROUND: The positive transcription elongation factor b (P-TEFb) kinase activity is involved in the process of transcription. Cyclin-dependent kinase 9 (CDK9), a core component of P-TEFb, regulates the process of transcription elongation, which is associated with differentiation and apoptosis in many cancer types. Wogonin, a natural CDK9 inhibitor isolated from Scutellaria baicalensis. This study aimed to investigate the involved molecular mechanisms of wogonin on anti- chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: mRNA and protein levels were analysed by RT-qPCR and western blot. Flow cytometry was used to assess cell differentiation and apoptosis. Cell transfection, immunofluorescence analysis and co-immunoprecipitation (co-IP) assays were applied to address the potential regulatory mechanism of wogonin. KU-812 cells xenograft NOD/SCID mice model was used to assess and verify the mechanism in vivo.RESULTS: We reported that the anti-CML effects in K562, KU-812 and primary CML cells induced by wogonin were regulated by P-TEFb complex. We also confirmed the relationship between CDK9 and erythroid differentiation via knockdown the expression of CDK9. For further study the mechanism of erythroid differentiation induced by wogonin, co-IP experiments were used to demonstrate that wogonin increased the binding between GATA-1 and FOG-1 but decreased the binding between GATA-1 and RUNX1, which were depended on P-TEFb. Also, wogonin induced apoptosis and decreased the mRNA and protein levels of MCL-1 in KU-812 cells, which is the downstream of P-TEFb. In vivo studies showed wogonin had good anti-tumor effects in KU-812 xenografts NOD/ SCID mice model and decreased the proportion of human CD45+ cells in spleens of mice. We also verified that wogonin exhibited anti-CML effects through modulating P-TEFb activity in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicated a special mechanism involving the regulation of P-TEFb kinase activity in CML cells, providing evidences for further application of wogonin in CML clinical treatment. Video Abstract.
RUNX1T1 has been found to be mutated in different cancers such as prostate, lung, colon, and breast cancer. A recent computational study involving the TCGA database of glioma patients found RUNX1T1 as one of the downregulated driver genes associated with poor overall survival of glioma patients. Hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF1α) is upregulated in glioma and has been associated with the severity and drug resistance of glioma. Previously, we have shown that RUNX1T3 degrades HIF1α affecting the proliferation of leukemia cells. We hypothesize that RUNX1T1 might be associated with the growth and development of glioma through the regulation of HIF1α. We have evaluated the expression level of RUNX1T1 at different stages of glioma and the effect of RUNX1T1 on the proliferation and invasiveness of glioblastoma cells in vitro. We further looked at the effect of RUNX1T1 on the expression and stability of HIF1α in vitro. Expression of RUNX1T1 was significantly downregulated, both at RNA and protein levels in glioma samples as studied by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. While expression of HIF1α was higher in glioma tissues compared with its level in the normal brain. In vitro studies demonstrated that RUNX1T1 interacted with HIF1α and recruited HIF1α modification factor such as PHD2 and GSK3β causing hydroxylation of HIF1α following ubiquitination by FBW7. RUNX1T1 led to the degradation of HIF1α and decreased proliferation/invasiveness of glioblastoma cell lines. Further, RUNX1T1 increased the effectiveness of temozolomide (TMZ), a conventional glioma drug toward glioblastoma cell lines. This study indicates that downregulation of RUNX1T1 might play an important role in the severity and development of glioma.
The HIV-1 pandemic is a significant challenge to the field of medicine. Despite advancements in antiretroviral (ART) development, 38 million people worldwide still live with this disease without a cure. A significant barrier to the eradication of HIV-1 lies in the persistently latent pool that establishes early in the infection. The "shock and kill" strategy relies on the discovery of a latency-reversing agent (LRA) that can robustly reactivate the latent pool and not limit immune clearance. We have found that a benzodiazepine (BDZ), that is commonly prescribed for panic and anxiety disorder, to be an ideal candidate for latency reversal. The BDZ Alprazolam functions as an inhibitor of the transcription factor RUNX1, which negatively regulates HIV-1 transcription. In addition to the displacement of RUNX1 from the HIV-1 5'LTR, Alprazolam potentiates the activation of STAT5 and its recruitment to the viral promoter. The activation of STAT5 in cytotoxic T cells may enable immune activation which is independent of the IL-2 receptor. These findings have significance for the potential use of Alprazolam in a curative strategy and to addressing the neuroinflammation associated with neuroHIV-1.
INTRODUCTION: This study aims to determine whether high glucose condition and dynamic O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) modification can promote the proliferation and migration of human retinal microvascular endothelial cells (HRMECs) and whether Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) could mediate the glucose and O-GlcNAc-driven proliferation and migration of HRMECs.RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Western blot analysis was used to detect the O-GlcNAc modification level and RUNX1 level in cells and retina tissues, cell growth was studied by cell counting kit-8 assay, cell proliferation was detected by immunofluorescence staining. Then, cell migration and tube formation were investigated by scratch-wound assay, Transwell assay, and tube-forming assay. The changes of retinal structure were detected by H&E staining. The O-GlcNAc modification of RUNX1 was detected by immunoprecipitation.RESULTS: High glucose increases pan-cellular O-GlcNAc modification and the proliferation and migration of HRMECs. Hence, O-GlcNAc modification is critical for the proliferation and migration of HRMECs. RUNX1 mediates the glucose and O-GlcNAc-driven proliferation and migration in HRMECs. RUNX1 can be modified by O-GlcNAc, and that the modification is enhanced in a high glucose environment.CONCLUSIONS: The present study reveals that high glucose condition directly affects retinal endothelial cells (EC) function, and O-GlcNAc modification is critical for the proliferation and migration of HRMECs, RUNX1 may take part in this mechanism, and maybe the function of RUNX1 is related to its O-GlcNAc modification level, which provides a new perspective for studying the mechanism of RUNX1 in diabetic retinopathy.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cytogenetic and fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) profile in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), referred to a university hospital in a 5-year 6-month period.SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Cytogenetic analysis of the bone marrow aspirate specimens of 91 patients was performed by standard Giemsa (G)-banding and interphase FISH (iFISH).RESULTS: The frequency of chromosomal abnormalities detected by G-banding was 29.5%, and the frequency of nonrandom abnormalities with independent prognostic significance identified by iFISH was 46.4%. The abnormality with the highest frequency was gain of RUNX1 (n = 18, 21.4%), followed by ETV6/RUNX1 fusion (n = 7, 8.3%), and gain of KMT2A (n = 6, 7.1%). Additionally, rarely reported gains of ETV6, PBX1, and ABL1 were observed at a frequency of 6% (n = 5), and the deletion of ETV6 and TCF3 was seen at a frequency of 3.6% (n = 3) and 2.3% (n = 2), respectively. A 10-year old with intrachromosomal amplification of chromosome 21 was also observed.CONCLUSIONS: This study strengthens and widens the current knowledge of the cytogenetic landscape of pediatric ALL.
Natural killer (NK) cells are major innate lymphocytes. NK cells do not require prior antigen exposure to mediate antitumor cytotoxicity or proinflammatory cytokine production. Since they use only nonclonotypic receptors, they possess high clinical value in treatment against a broad spectrum of malignancies. Irrespective of this potential, however, the transcriptional regulation that governs human NK cell development remains far from fully defined. Various environmental cues initiate a complex network of transcription factors (TFs) during their early development, one of which is GATA2, a master regulator that drives the commitment of common lymphoid progenitors (CLPs) into immature NK progenitors (NKPs). GATA2 forms a core heptad complex with six other TFs (TAL1, FLI1, RUNX1, LYL1, LMO2, and ERG) to mediate its transcriptional regulation in various cell types. Patients with GATA2 haploinsufficiency specifically lose CD56bright NK cells, with or without a reduced number of CD56dlm NK cells. Here, we review the recent progress in understanding GATA2 and its role in human NK cell development and functions.
ETV6-RUNX1 is almost exclusively associated with childhood B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), but the consequences of ETV6-RUNX1 expression on cell lineage decisions during B-cell leukemogenesis are completely unknown. Clinically silent ETV6-RUNX1 preleukemic clones are frequently found in neonatal cord blood, but few carriers develop B-ALL as a result of secondary genetic alterations. The understanding of the mechanisms underlying the first transforming steps could greatly advance the development of non-toxic prophylactic interventions. Using genetic lineage tracing, we examined the capacity of ETV6-RUNX1 to instruct a malignant phenotype in the hematopoietic lineage by cell-specific Cre-mediated activation of ETV6-RUNX1 from the endogenous Etv6 gene locus. Here we show that, while ETV6-RUNX1 has the propensity to trigger both T- and B-lymphoid malignancies, it is the second hit that determines tumor cell identity. To instigate leukemia, both oncogenic hits must place early in the development of hematopoietic/precursor cells, not in already committed B-cells. Depending on the nature of the second hit, the resulting B-ALLs presented distinct entities that were clearly separable based on their gene expression profiles. Our findings give a novel mechanistic insight into the early steps of ETV6-RUNX1+ B-ALL development and might have major implications for the potential development of ETV6-RUNX1+ B-ALL prevention strategies.
A growing number of human diseases have been found to be associated with aberrant DNA methylation, including cancer. Mutations targeting genes encoding DNA methyltransferase (DNMT), TET family of DNA demethylases, and isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH1, IDH2) that produce TET inhibitory metabolite, 2-hyoxyglutarate (2-HG), are found in more than half of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). To gain new insights into the regulation of DNA de/methylation and consequence of its alteration in cancer development, we searched for genes which are mutated in a manner that is linked with gene mutations involved in DNA de/methylation in multiple cancer types. We found that recurrent CBFB-MYH11 fusions, which result in the expression of fusion protein comprising core-binding factor β (CBFB) and myosin heavy chain 11 (MYH11) and are found in 6∼8% of AML patients, occur mutually exclusively with DNMT3A mutations. Tumors bearing CBFB-MYH11 fusion show DNA hypomethylation patterns similar to those with loss-of-function mutation of DNMT3A. Expression of CBFB-MYH11 fusion or inhibition of DNMT3A similarly impairs the methylation and expression of target genes of Runt related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), a functional partner of CBFB. We demonstrate that RUNX1 directly interacts with DNMT3A and that CBFB-MYH11 fusion protein sequesters RUNX1 in the cytoplasm, thereby preventing RUNX1 from interacting with and recruiting DNMT3A to its target genes. Our results identify a novel regulation of DNA methylation and provide a molecular basis how CBFB-MYH11 fusion contributes to leukemogenesis.
The chromosomal translocation t(8;21) and the resulting oncofusion gene AML1/ETO have long served as a prototypical genetic lesion to model and understand leukemogenesis. In this review, we describe the wide-ranging role of AML1/ETO in AML leukemogenesis, with a particular focus on the aberrant epigenetic regulation of gene transcription driven by this AML-defining mutation. We begin by analyzing how structural changes secondary to distinct genomic breakpoints and splice changes, as well as posttranscriptional modifications, influence AML1/ETO protein function. Next, we characterize how AML1/ETO recruits chromatin-modifying enzymes to target genes and how the oncofusion protein alters chromatin marks, transcription factor binding, and gene expression. We explore the specific impact of these global changes in the epigenetic network facilitated by the AML1/ETO oncofusion on cellular processes and leukemic growth. Furthermore, we define the genetic landscape of AML1/ETO-positive AML, presenting the current literature concerning the incidence of cooperating mutations in genes such as KIT, FLT3, and NRAS. Finally, we outline how alterations in transcriptional regulation patterns create potential vulnerabilities that may be exploited by epigenetically active agents and other therapeutics.
Erratum in    Lancet Oncol. 2021 Sep;22(9):e389.
Two quantitative PCR (qPCR)-based methods, for clonal immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor gene (Ig/TCR) rearrangements and for fusion transcripts, are widely used for the measurement of minimal residual disease (MRD) in patients with B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). MRD of bone marrow samples from 165 patients carrying the three major fusion transcripts, including 74 BCR-ABL1, 54 ETV6-RUNX1, and 37 TCF3-PBX1, was analyzed by using the two qPCR-based methods. The correlation coefficient of both methods was good for TCF3-PBX1 (R2 = 0.8088) and BCR-ABL1 (R2 = 0.8094) ALL and moderate for ETV6-RUNX1 (R2 = 0.5972). The concordance was perfect for TCF3-PBX1 ALL (97.2%), substantially concordant for ETV6-RUNX1 ALL (87.1%), and only moderate for BCR-ABL1 ALL (70.6%). The discordant MRD, positive for only one method with a difference greater than one log, was found in 4 of 93 samples (4.3%) with ETV6-RUNX1, 31 of 245 samples (12.7%) with BCR-ABL1, and none of TCF3-PBX1 ALL. None of the eight non-transplanted patients with BCR-ABL1-MRD (+)/Ig/TCR-MRD (-) with a median follow-up time of 73.5 months had hematologic relapses. Our study showed an excellent MRD concordance between the two qPCR-based methods in TCF3-PBX1 ALL, whereas qPCR for Ig/TCR is more reliable in BCR-ABL1 ALL.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Nov 4;138(18):1646-1648.
This study aims to explore the effect of the ITI (interferon alpha-1b, thalidomide, and interleukin-2) regimen on the AML1-ETO fusion gene in patients with t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who were in hematologic remission but positive for the AML1-ETO fusion gene. From September 2014 to November 2020; 20 patients with AML (15 from The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou University, 4 from The First Affiliated Hospital; and College of Clinical Medicine of Henan University of Science and Technology, and 1 from Anyang District Hospital) with hematological remission but AML1-ETO fusion gene positivity were treated with different doses of the ITI regimen to monitor changes in AML1-ETO fusion gene levels. Twenty patients were treated with a routine dose of the ITI regimen, including 13 males and 7 females. The median patient age was 38 (14-70 years). The fusion gene was negative in 10 patients after 1 (0.5 ~ 8.6) month, significantly decreased in 4 patients after 2.8 (1 ~ 6) months, increased in 4 patients, and unchanged in 2 patients. The 4 patients with elevated levels of the fusion gene were treated with an increased dose of the ITI regimen, and all four patients became negative, for a total effective rate of 90%. The ITI regimen reduces AML1-ETO fusion gene levels in patients with AML who are in hematologic remission but are fusion gene-positive. Improvement was observed in patients' response to a higher dose administration, and patients tolerated the treatment well.
Lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) is a rare, low-grade metastasizing disease characterized by cystic lung destruction. LAM can exhibit extensive heterogeneity at the molecular, cellular, and tissue levels. However, the molecular similarities and differences among LAM cells and tissue, and their connection to cancer features are not fully understood. By integrating complementary gene and protein LAM signatures, and single-cell and bulk tissue transcriptome profiles, we show sources of disease heterogeneity, and how they correspond to cancer molecular portraits. Subsets of LAM diseased cells differ with respect to gene expression profiles related to hormones, metabolism, proliferation, and stemness. Phenotypic diseased cell differences are identified by evaluating lumican (LUM) proteoglycan and YB1 transcription factor expression in LAM lung lesions. The RUNX1 and IRF1 transcription factors are predicted to regulate LAM cell signatures, and both regulators are expressed in LAM lung lesions, with differences between spindle-like and epithelioid LAM cells. The cancer single-cell transcriptome profiles most similar to those of LAM cells include a breast cancer mesenchymal cell model and lines derived from pleural mesotheliomas. Heterogeneity is also found in LAM lung tissue, where it is mainly determined by immune system factors. Variable expression of the multifunctional innate immunity protein LCN2 is linked to disease heterogeneity. This protein is found to be more abundant in blood plasma from LAM patients than from healthy women. IMPLICATIONS: This study identifies LAM molecular and cellular features, master regulators, cancer similarities, and potential causes of disease heterogeneity.
A heterogeneous genetic subtype of B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia is driven by constitutive kinase-activation, including patients with JAK2 fusions. In our study, we model the impact of a novel JAK2 fusion protein on hematopoietic development in human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). We insert the RUNX1-JAK2 fusion into one endogenous RUNX1 allele through employing in trans paired nicking genome editing. Tagging of the fusion with a degron facilitates protein depletion using the heterobifunctional compound dTAG-13. Throughout in vitro hematopoietic differentiation, the expression of RUNX1-JAK2 is driven by endogenous RUNX1 regulatory elements at physiological levels. Functional analysis reveals that RUNX1-JAK2 knock-in cell lines yield fewer hematopoietic progenitors, due to RUNX1 haploinsufficiency. Nevertheless, these progenitors further differentiate toward myeloid lineages to a similar extent as wild-type cells. The expression of the RUNX1-JAK2 fusion protein only elicits subtle effects on myeloid differentiation, and is unable to transform early hematopoietic progenitors. However, phosphoprotein and transcriptome analyses reveal that RUNX1-JAK2 constitutively activates JAK-STAT signaling in differentiating hiPSCs and at the same time upregulates MYC targets-confirming the interaction between these pathways. This proof-of-principle study indicates that conditional expression of oncogenic fusion proteins in combination with hematopoietic differentiation of hiPSCs may be applicable to leukemia-relevant disease modeling.
Lung dendritic cells (DCs) are divided into two major populations, which include CD103+XCR1+ cDC1s and CD11b+Sirpα+ cDC2s. The maintenance of their relative proportions is dynamic and lung inflammation, such as caused by exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, can have a significant impact on the local cDC signature. Alterations in the lung cDC signature could modify the capacity of the immune system to respond to various pathogens. We consequently aimed to assess the impact of the Gram-negative bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa on lung cDC1 and cDC2 populations, and to identify the mechanisms leading to alterations in cDC populations. We observed that exposure to P. aeruginosa decreased the proportions of CD103+XCR1+ cDC1s, while increasing that of CD11b+ DCs. We identified two potential mechanisms involved in this modulation of lung cDC populations. First, we observed an increase in bone marrow pre-DC IRF4 expression suggesting a higher propensity of pre-DCs to differentiate towards the cDC2 lineage. This observation was combined with a reduced capacity of lung XCR1+ DC1s to express CD103. In vitro, we demonstrated that GM-CSF-induced CD103 expression on cDCs depends on GM-CSF receptor internalization and RUNX1 activity. Furthermore, we observed that cDCs stimulation with LPS or P. aeruginosa reduced the proportions of intracellular GM-CSF receptor and decreased RUNX1 mRNA expression. Altogether, these results suggest that alterations in GM-CSF receptor intracellular localization and RUNX1 signaling could be involved in the reduced CD103 expression on cDC1 in response to P. aeruginosa. To verify whether the capacity of cDCs to express CD103 following P. aeruginosa exposure impacts the immune response, WT and Cd103-/- mice were exposed to P. aeruginosa. Lack of CD103 expression led to an increase in the number of neutrophils in the airways, suggesting that lack of CD103 expression on cDC1s could favor the innate immune response to this bacterium.
Kidney cancer is the third most common malignancy of the urinary system, of which, kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) accounts for the vast majority. Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) are involved in multiple cellular functions. However, the diverse expression patterns and prognostic values of RUNX genes in kidney cancer remained to be elucidated. In our study, we mined the DNA methylation, transcriptional and survival data of RUNX genes in patients with different kinds of kidney cancer through Oncomine, Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis, UALCAN, Kaplan-Meier Plotter, cBioPortal and LinkedOmics. We found that RUNX1 and RUNX3 were upregulated in KIRC tissues compared with those in normal tissues. The survival analysis results indicated a high transcription level of RUNX1 was associated with poor overall survival (OS) in KIRC patients. Furthermore, KIRC tumor tissues had significantly lower levels of RUNX1 promoter methylation than that in paracancerous tissues, with decreased DNA methylation of RUNX1 notably associated with poor OS in KIRC. In conclusion, our results revealed that RUNX1 may be a potential therapeutic target for treating KIRC, and RUNX1 promoter methylation level shows promise as a novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarker, which laid a foundation for further study.
IL-33, a chromatin-associated multifunctional cytokine, is implicated in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD), an inflammatory skin disorder characterized by skin barrier dysfunction. IL-33 accumulates in the nuclei of epidermal keratinocytes (KCs) in AD lesions. However, it is unclear whether nuclear IL-33 directly contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. IL-31, a pruritogenic cytokine primarily produced by T helper type 2 cells, is elevated in AD lesions and promotes AD development by suppressing KC differentiation and inducing itching. In this study, we investigated the involvement of nuclear IL-33 in IL-31‒mediated suppression of KC differentiation. In monolayer cultures and living skin equivalent, IL-31 increased the expression of full-length IL-33 and the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) in the nuclei of human KCs, which in turn downregulated the expression of differentiation markers. We found that IL-31 and IL-4/IL-13 use very similar mechanisms to inhibit KC differentiation: nuclear IL-33 combines with phosphorylated STAT3 and functions as a STAT3 transcription cofactor, promoting phosphorylated STAT3 binding to the FLG promoter to inhibit its transcription; moreover, the nuclear IL-33/phosphorylated STAT3 complex drives the downregulation of keratin 1 and keratin 10 by reducing the availability of the transcription factor RunX1. Therefore, nuclear IL-33 plays an important role in IL-31‒mediated differentiation suppression by regulating STAT3 activation in human KCs.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2021 Sep;22(9):1072-1074.    Nat Rev Immunol. 2021 Sep;21(9):546-547.
Skin and lung fibrosis in systemic sclerosis (SSc) is driven by myofibroblasts, alpha-smooth muscle actin expressing cells. The number of myofibroblasts in SSc skin correlates with the modified Rodnan skin score, the most widely used clinical measure of skin disease severity. Murine fibrosis models indicate that myofibroblasts can arise from a variety of different cell types, but their origin in SSc skin has remained uncertain. Utilizing single cell RNA-sequencing, we define different dermal fibroblast populations and transcriptome changes, comparing SSc to healthy dermal fibroblasts. Here, we show that SSc dermal myofibroblasts arise in two steps from an SFRP2hi/DPP4-expressing progenitor fibroblast population. In the first step, SSc fibroblasts show globally upregulated expression of transcriptome markers, such as PRSS23 and THBS1. A subset of these cells shows markers indicating that they are proliferating. Only a fraction of SFRP2hi SSc fibroblasts differentiate into myofibroblasts, as shown by expression of additional markers, SFRP4 and FNDC1. Bioinformatics analysis of the SSc fibroblast transcriptomes implicated upstream transcription factors, including FOSL2, RUNX1, STAT1, FOXP1, IRF7 and CREB3L1, as well as SMAD3, driving SSc myofibroblast differentiation.
BACKGROUND/AIM: Intratumor heterogeneity (ITH), defined as a tumor composed of multiple subclones with different characteristics, is widely reported in invasive breast carcinoma (IBC) and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). This study aimed to assess the extent of ITH in synchronous DCIS-IBC at the genetic level.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 17 lesions from 5 patients were subjected to whole-exome sequencing. Nonsynonymous mutations and copy number aberrations were visualized to assess ITH.RESULTS: The most commonly mutated cancer-related genes in IBC and DCIS were RUNX1 (35.3%), PIK3CA (29.4%), and GATA3 (29.4%). There were no universally mutated cancer-related genes in all IBCs. All lesions harbored private mutations restricted to each lesion. Several DCIS lesions displayed a greater amount of genetic aberrations than the accompanying IBC, implying that a subset of DCIS was as advanced or more advanced than the synchronous IBC.CONCLUSION: We herein demonstrated genetic ITH in DCIS lesions coexisting with IBC.
Pretransplant measurable residual disease (MRD) has been shown to be associated with relapse incidence following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, it remains less clear whether pretransplant MRD status affects transplant outcomes in core binding factor AML (CBF-AML). We retrospectively evaluated the effect of pretransplant MRD, which was measured by a polymerase chain reaction of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 or CBFB-MYH11 fusion transcripts, on transplant outcomes for a cohort of 959 adult patients with t(8;21) or inv(16) AML treated by allogeneic HCT during complete remission (CR), between 2000 and 2018. Multivariate analysis showed the absence of pretransplant MRD was significantly associated with lower relapse (hazard ratio [HR], 0.46; P < 0.001), treatment failure (HR, 0.66; P = 0.004), and overall mortality (HR, 0.72; P = 0.037) among patients with t(8;21). However, pretransplant MRD negativity was not associated with relapse (HR, 0.73; P = 0.420), treatment failure (HR, 0.64; P = 0.063), or overall mortality (HR, 0.69; P = 0.149) among patients with inv(16). In subgroup analysis, pretransplant MRD status significantly affected relapse and LFS only in patients with t(8;21) undergoing allogeneic HCT during CR2. In conclusion, our data demonstrate the different prognostic values of pretransplant MRD for CBF-AML, highlighting the need to develop effective therapeutic strategies for such MRD-positive patients.
INTRODUCTION: The diagnosis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN) is based on morphology and cytogenetics/FISH findings per 2017 WHO classification. With rare exceptions, somatic mutations have not been incorporated as the diagnostic criteria.METHODS: We analyzed the utility of mutational analysis with a targeted 54-gene or 40-gene next-generation sequencing (NGS) panel in the diagnosis of MDS and MDS/MPN.RESULTS: We retrospectively collected 92 patients who presented with unexplained cytopenia with or without cytosis, including 32 low-grade MDS (MDS-L), 18 high-grade MDS (MDS-H), 5 therapy-related MDS (MDS-TR), 19 MDS/MPN, and 18 negative cases. Of 92 patients, 197 somatic mutations involving 38 genes were detected and had variant allele frequency (VAF) ranging from 3% to 99%. The most common mutated genes were TET2, ASXL1, RUNX1, TP53, SRSF2, and SF3B1. MDS-L, MDS-H, MDS-TR, and MDS/MPN showed an average number of somatic mutations with a mean VAF of 1.9/33%, 2.6/30%, 2/36%, and 4/41%, respectively. SF3B1 mutations were exclusively observed in MDS-L and MDS/MPN. TP53 gene mutations were more frequently seen in MDS-H and MDS-TR. Among 34 patients with a diagnosis of MDS or MDS/MPN with normal cytogenetics, 31 patients (91%) had at least 1 mutation and 24 patients (71%) had ≥2 mutations with ≥10% VAF.CONCLUSION: A myeloid mutational panel provides additional evidence of clonality besides cytogenetics/FISH studies in the diagnosis of cytopenia with or without cytosis. Two or more mutations with ≥10% VAF highly predicts MDS and MDS/MPN with a positive predictive value of 100%.
BACKGROUND: This study was aimed to evaluate the value of DNA index(DI) among pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated on Children's Oncology Group (COG) protocols between 2000 and 2015.METHODS: Retrospective study were analysis among pediatric ALL patients from the TARGET dataset.RESULT: Totally, 1668 eligible pediatric patients were enrolled in this study. Of them, 993 are male and 675 are female with a median age of 7.6 years old. The median follow-up for those patients was 7.7 years (range 0.1-15.7 years). The probability of 15-year EFS and OS were reported to be 67.5 ± 3.1% and 78.3 ± 2.5%, respectively. BCR/ABL1 fusion gene affected the early treatment response and the survival of childhood ALL. Moreover, those patients with ETV6/RUNX1 fusion gene were also significantly associated with better EFS (HR = 0.6, 95% CI 0.4-0.8, P = 0.003) and OS (HR = 0.3, 95%CI 0.2-0.5, P < 0.001) compared to patients with no ETV6/RUNX1. On the contrary, BM NR on Day+ 29 showed a significant decrease in EFS (HR = 3.1, 95%CI 2.1-4.5, P < 0.001) and OS (HR = 1.7, 95%CI 1.1-2.8, P = 0.026). Multivariate analysis showed that DI was significantly associated with better EFS and OS. The threshold effect of DI on poor outcome was significant after adjusting for potential confounders. The adjusted regression coefficient (Log RR) was 0.7 (95%CI 0.1-3.2, P = 0.597) for DI < 1.1 while 8.8 (95%CI 1.4-56.0, P = 0.021) for DI ≥ 1.2 and 0.0 (95%CI 0.0-0.8, P = 0.041) for 1.1 ≤ DI < 1.2. Generalized additive models revealed that the lowest rates of the adverse outcomes estimated to occur among DI between 1.1 and 1.2.CONCLUSION: For those childhood ALL treated on COG protocols between 2000 and 2015, ETV6/RUNX1 and BM NR were closely related to the prognosis. Moreover, the DI between 1.1 and 1.2 can serve as a significant cut-point discriminating the risk group, which indicated a favourable prognostic factor.
BACKGROUND: RUNX1T1 is extensively studied in the context of AML1-RUNX1T1 fusion protein in acute myeloid leukemia. Little is known about the function of RUNX1T1 itself, although data on its function and regulation have begun to emerge from clinical, and in vitro studies. It is a putative tumor suppressor, whose expression is altered in a variety of solid tumors. Recently, reduced expression of RUNX1T1 in triple-negative breast tumors, and its influence on prognosis was reported.METHODS AND RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier Plotter online tool was used to study the relationship between RUNX1T1 expression and survival of breast cancer patients. High RUNX1T1 expression was associated with longer overall survival (OS), relapse-free survival (RFS) and distant metastasis free survival (DMFS). RUNX1T1 expression positively and negatively influenced OS of patients with ERα-positive and ERα-negative breast tumors, respectively. It was also associated with prolonged RFS, and DMFS in tamoxifen-treated patients. Expression of RUNX1T1 and ERα mRNA was analyzed in 40 breast tumor samples, and breast cancer cell lines using RT-PCR. TCGA-BRCA data was mined to study the relationship between RUNX1T1 and ERα mRNA expression. ERα-positive breast tumors showed significantly higher RUNX1T1 mRNA expression compared to ERα-negative tumors. RUNX1T1 mRNA expression was analyzed by qRT-PCR in MCF-7 or T47D cells, which were treated with 17β-estradiol, or the ERα agonist PPT, alone or in combination with 4-hydroxytamoxifen. Effect of ERα knockdown was also investigated. Results indicate that estrogen downmodulated RUNX1T1 mRNA expression via ERα.CONCLUSION: Higher expression of RUNX1T1 in breast tumors is associated with favourable prognosis. RUNX1T1 and ERα show co-ordinated expression in breast tumors, and breast cancer cell lines. Estrogen-ERα signalling downmodulates the expression of RUNX1T1 mRNA in ERα-positive breast cancer cells. In-depth investigations on the interaction between RUNX1T1 and ERα are warranted to unravel the role and relevance of RUNX1T1 in breast cancer.
Acquired resistance to glucocorticoids (GCs) is an obstacle to the effective treatment of leukemia, but the molecular mechanisms of steroid insensitivity have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we established an acquired GC-resistant leukemia cell model and found a long noncoding RNA, HOTAIRM1, was overexpressed in the resistant cells by transcriptional profiling, and was higher expressed in patients with poor prognosis. The whole-genome-binding sites of HOTAIRM1 were determined by ChIRP-seq (chromatin isolation by RNA purification combined with sequencing) analysis. Further study determined that HOTAIRM1 bound to the transcriptional inhibitory region of ARHGAP18 and repressed the expression of ARHGAP18, which led to the increase of RHOA/ROCK1 signaling pathway and promoted GC resistance through antiapoptosis of leukemia cells. The inhibition of ROCK1 in GC-resistant cells could restore GCs responsiveness. In addition, HOTAIRM1 could also act as a protein sequester to prevent transcription factor AML1(acute myeloid leukemia 1) from binding to the regulatory region of ARHGAP18 by interacting with AML1. At last, we also proved AML1 could directly activate the expression of HOTAIRM1 through binding to the promoter of HOTAIRM1, which enriched the knowledge on the regulation of lncRNAs. This study revealed epigenetic causes of glucocorticoid resistance from the perspective of lncRNA, and laid a foundation for the optimization of glucocorticoid-based leukemia treatment strategy in clinic.
The placenta can be affected by environmental factors, such as exposure to cigarette smoke. This exposure in the fetal context is considered a risk factor for the development of short-term postnatal diseases, such as asthma. Asthma is an inflammatory disease characterized by predominant acquisition of CD4 T lymphocytes (TLs) of the Th2 type. Transcription factors such as GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3) and STAT6 actively participate in the differentiation of virgin TLs towards the Th2 profile, while transcription factors such as STAT1, T-Box transcription factor 21 (T-BET), RUNX1 and RUNX3 participate in their differentiation towards the Th1 profile. The objective of the current study was to evaluate the impact of exposure to cigarette smoke on the gene expression of STAT1, T-BET, GATA3, IL-4, RUNX1 and RUNX3 during the gestation period, and to determine whether the expression levels of these genes are associated with changes in global methylation. STAT1, GATA3, RUNX1 and RUNX3 protein and mRNA expression levels in the placental tissue of women smokers and non-smoking women were determined via immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR (qPCR) respectively. Additionally, T-BET and IL-4 mRNA expression levels were determined by qPCR. On the other hand, global methylation was determined via ELISA. In the present study, significant increases were observed in RUNX1 transcription factor expression in placentas from women smokers when compared with placentas of non-smoking women. Similarly, significant increases in the expression of GATA3, IL-4 and RUNX3 mRNA were observed. The changes in gene expression were not associated with changes in the global methylation levels. Finally, a higher frequency of low-birth-weight infants were identified in cases of exposure to cigarette smoke during pregnancy when compared with infants not exposed to cigarette smoke during pregnancy. Thus, the data of the present study contributed to the understanding of the genetic and clinical impacts of exposure to cigarette smoke during pregnancy and its importance in maternal and fetal health.
Comment in    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2021 Oct;18(10):687.
Comment in    Blood Cancer Discov. 2021 May 25;2(4):294-296.
Hydroxycarbamide (HC, hydroxyurea) is a cytoreductive drug inducing cell cycle blockade. However, emerging evidence suggests that HC plays a role in the modulation of transcription through the activity of transcription factors and DNA methylation. Examining the global mechanism of action of HC in the context of myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs), for which HC is the first-line treatment, will provide a better understanding of its molecular effects. To explore the effects of HC genome-wide, transcriptomic analyses were performed on two clinically relevant cell types at different stages of differentiation treated with HC in a murine MPN model. This study was replicated in MPN patients by profiling genome-wide gene expression and DNA methylation using patient blood samples collected longitudinally, before and following HC exposure. The effects of HC on the transcriptome were not only associated with cell cycle interruption but also with hematopoietic functions. Moreover, a group of genes were restored to normal expression levels in murine hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) following drug treatment, including the master regulator of hematopoiesis, RUNX1 In humans, HC significantly modifies DNA methylation levels in HSCs at several distal regulatory regions, which we show to be associated with SPI1 binding sites and at the SPI1 locus itself. We have identified novel targets of HC that include pivotal transcription factors involved in hematopoiesis, and for the first time we report abnormal methylation patterns in MPN patients at the master regulator gene SPI1 and its distal binding sites, which HC is able to restore to normal levels.
BACKGROUND: Gastric Cancer (GC) accounts for high mortality, which seriously threatens people's health. This study set out to probe into the effect and mechanism of miR-27b-3p on invasion and migration of GC.METHODS: The miRNA sequence data of GC was acquired from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The Differential Expression of miRNAs (DEMis) was acquired through R packages "edgeR" and "limma." TargetScan, picTar, RNA22, PITA, and miRanda were performed to predict the target gene of miR-27b-3p. Western-blot and RTPCR were applied to detect the expression level of the selected candidate. Transwell assays evaluated the effect of miR-27b-3p and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) on cell migration and invasion. The rescue assay was achieved by co-culture with mimics of miR-27b-3p and vector of RUNX1. The psiCHECK2 vector was used in luciferase report assay.RESULTS: We found miR-27b-3p was down-regulated in GC and associated with GC patients' poor survival based on the TCGA data and bioinformatics analysis. Furthermore, RUNX1 was the target gene of miR-27b-3p, which was proved by luciferase report assay. miR-27b-3p and RUNX1 jointly participate in the regulation of Hippo pathway. The upregulated miR-27b-3p could inhibit Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT) as well as invasion and migration. However, an overexpressed RUNX1 could weaken this phenomenon.CONCLUSION: MiR-27b-3p was down-regulated in GC, and it could regulate Hippo pathway and affect EMT by inhibiting RUNX1 expression.
Congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type I (CDA I) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by moderate to severe macrocytic anemia and pathognomonic morphologic abnormalities of the erythroid precursors, including spongy heterochromatin. The disease is mainly caused by mutations in CDAN1 (encoding for Codanin-1). No patients with homozygous null type mutations have been described, and mouse null mutants die during early embryogenesis prior to the initiation of erythropoiesis. The cellular functions of Codanin-1 and the erythroid specificity of the phenotype remain elusive. To investigate the role of Codanin-1 in erythropoiesis, we crossed mice carrying the Cdan1 floxed allele (Cdan fl/fl ) with mice expressing Cre-recombinase under regulation of the erythropoietin receptor promoter (ErGFPcre). The resulting CdanΔEry transgenic embryos died at mid-gestation (E12.5-E13.5) from severe anemia, with very low numbers of circulating erythroblast. Transmission electron microscopy studies of primitive erythroblasts (E9.5) revealed the pathognomonic spongy heterochromatin. The morphology of CdanΔEry primitive erythroblasts demonstrated progressive development of dyserythropoiesis. Annexin V staining showed increases in both early and late-apoptotic erythroblasts compared to controls. Flow cytometry studies using the erythroid-specific cell-surface markers CD71 and Ter119 demonstrated that CdanΔEry erythroid progenitors do not undergo the semi-synchronous maturation characteristic of primitive erythroblasts. Gene expression studies aimed to evaluate the effect of Cdan1 depletion on erythropoiesis revealed a delay of ζ to α globin switch compared to controls. We also found increased expression of Gata2, Pu.1, and Runx1, which are known to inhibit terminal erythroid differentiation. Consistent with this data, our zebrafish model showed increased gata2 expression upon cdan1 knockdown. In summary, we demonstrated for the first time that Cdan1 is required for primitive erythropoiesis, while providing two experimental models for studying the role of Codanin-1 in erythropoiesis and in the pathogenesis of CDA type I.
Down syndrome (DS) subjects are more likely to develop the clinical features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) very early in the disease process due to the additional impact of neuroinflammation and because of activation of innate immunity. Many factors involved in the neuropathology of AD in DS, including epigenetic factors, innate immunity and impaired haematopoiesis, contribute significantly towards the pathophysiology and the enhanced ageing processes seen in DS and as a consequence of the triplication of genes RUNX1, S100β and OLIG2, together with the influence of proteins that collectively protect from cellular defects and inflammation, which include hepcidin, ferritin, IL-6 and TREM2. This study is aimed at determining whether genetic variants and inflammatory proteins are involved in haematopoiesis and cellular processes in DS compared with age-matched control participants, particularly with respect to neuroinflammation and accelerated ageing. Serum protein levels from DS, AD and control participants were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Blood smears and post-mortem brain samples from AD and DS subjects were analysed by immunohistochemistry. RUNX1 mRNA expression was analysed by RT-PCR and in situ hybridisation in mouse tissues. Our results suggest that hepcidin, S100β and TREM2 play a critical role in survival and proliferation of glial cells through a common shared pathway. Blood smear analysis showed the presence of RUNX1 in megakaryocytes and platelets, implying participation in myeloid cell development. In contrast, hepcidin was expressed in erythrocytes and in platelets, suggesting a means of possible entry into the brain parenchyma via the choroid plexus (CP). The gene product of RUNX1 and hepcidin both play a critical role in haematopoiesis in DS. We propose that soluble TREM2, S100β and hepcidin can migrate from the periphery via the CP, modulate the blood-brain immune axis in DS and could form an important and hitherto neglected avenue for possible therapeutic interventions to reduce plaque formation.
Pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disease composed of clinically relevant subtypes defined by recurrent cytogenetic aberrations. The majority of the aberrations used in risk grouping for treatment decisions are extensively studied, but still a large proportion of pediatric AML patients remain cytogenetically undefined and would therefore benefit from additional molecular investigation. As aberrant epigenetic regulation has been widely observed during leukemogenesis, we hypothesized that DNA methylation signatures could be used to predict molecular subtypes and identify signatures with prognostic impact in AML. To study genome-wide DNA methylation, we analyzed 123 diagnostic and 19 relapse AML samples on Illumina 450k DNA methylation arrays. We designed and validated DNA methylation-based classifiers for AML cytogenetic subtype, resulting in an overall test accuracy of 91%. Furthermore, we identified methylation signatures associated with outcome in t(8;21)/RUNX1-RUNX1T1, normal karyotype, and MLL/KMT2A-rearranged subgroups (p < 0.01). Overall, these results further underscore the clinical value of DNA methylation analysis in AML.
INTRODUCTION: Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MN) are frequently categorized according to previous therapy or pattern of cytogenetic abnormalities. Our objective was to evaluate and compare the mutational profile of de novo and t-MN by next generation sequencing.METHODS: Sixty-four samples from patients with t-MN, previously treated for a solid tumor (mainly breast), or de novo AML, MDS, MDS/MPN were selected for our study. The library was prepared using diagnostic samples and the TruSight Myeloid sequencing panel targeting 54 genes. Samples were sequenced on a MiSeq. The classification system of the Belgian ComPerMed Expert Panel was used for the biological variant classification.RESULTS: Taking only pathogenic, probably pathogenic variants and variants of unknown significance into account 141 variants in 33 genes were found in 52 of 64 samples (81%; mean number of variants per patient = 2; range = [1-11]; 67 variants in 25 genes in t-MN and 74 variants in 25 genes in de novo MN). Overall, the most frequently detected variants included TET2 (n = 22), TP53 (n = 12), DNMT3A (n = 10) and FLT3, NPM1, RUNX1 (n = 8 each).CONCLUSION: Our study revealed a high variety of variants both in t-MN and de novo MN patients. There was a higher incidence of FLT3 and TP53 variants in t-MN compared to de novo MN.
DOI: 10.4274/tjh.galenos.2021.2021.0280PMCID: PMC8386312PMID: 34190688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Cardiac hypertrophy and the resultant heart failure are among the most common causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide; thus, identifying the key factor mediating pathological cardiac hypertrophy is critically important for developing the strategy to protect against heart failure. Runx1 (Runt-related transcription factor 1) acts as an essential transcription factor that functions in a variety of cellular processes including differentiation, proliferation, tissue growth and DNA damage response. However, relatively little is known about the role of Runx1 in heart, especially cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. In the present study, we investigated the role of Runx1 in experimentally pathological cardiac hypertrophy. The in vitro model was induced by Ang II exposure to cultured neonatal rat cardiomyocytes, and the in vivo pathological cardiac hypertrophy models were induced by chronic pressure overload in mice. Runx1 expression is increased in heart tissues from mice with pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy and in neonatal rat cardiomyocytes in response to Ang II stimulation. Moreover, knockdown of cardiac Runx1 alleviates the pressure overload-induced cardiac hypertrophy. Mechanistically, Runx1 activates the p53 signalling by binding to the p53 gene and promotes its transcription. Rescue experiments indicate that Runx1 promotes cardiac hypertrophy in a p53-dependent manner. Remarkably, we demonstrated that Ro5-3335 (a Runx1 inhibitor) acts as a potential therapeutic drug for treating pathological cardiac hypertrophy. In summary, we conclude that Runx1 is a novel mediator and therapeutic target for pathological cardiac hypertrophy.
INTRODUCTION: Studies of thrombin generation (TG) with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and platelet-poor plasma (PPP) have provided insights on bleeding disorders. We studied TG for a cohort with commonly encountered platelet function disorders (PFD).METHODS: Participants included 40 controls and 31 with PFD due to: nonsyndromic dense granule (DG) deficiency (PFD-DGD, n = 9), RUNX1 haploinsufficiency (n = 6) and aggregation defects from other, uncharacterized causes (n = 16). TG was tested with PRP and PPP samples. As DG store ADP and polyphosphate that enhance platelet-dependent TG, PFD-DGD PRP TG was tested for correction with ADP, polyphosphate and combined additives. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), platelet factor V (FV), and platelet TFPI and ANO6 transcript levels were also evaluated. Findings were tested for associations with TG endpoints and bleeding.RESULTS: PFD samples had impaired PRP TG, but also impaired PPP TG, with strong associations between their PRP and PPP TG endpoints (P ≤ .005). PFD-DGD PRP TG endpoints showed associations to PPP TG endpoints but not to DG counts, and were improved, but not fully corrected, by adding polyphosphate and agonists. PFD participants had increased plasma TFPI and reduced platelet TFPI (P ≤ .02) but normal levels of platelet FV, and platelet TFPI and ANO6 transcripts levels. PFD plasma TFPI levels showed significant association to several PPP TG endpoints (P ≤ .04). Several PFD PRP TG endpoints showed significant associations to bleeding symptoms, including wound healing problems and prolonged bleeding from minor cuts (P ≤ .04).CONCLUSION: TG is impaired in commonly encountered PFD, with their PRP TG findings showing interesting associations to symptoms.
PU.1 (encoded by Spi1), an ETS-family transcription factor with many hematopoietic roles, is highly expressed in the earliest intrathymic T cell progenitors but must be down-regulated during T lineage commitment. The transcription factors Runx1 and GATA3 have been implicated in this Spi1 repression, but the basis of the timing was unknown. We show that increasing Runx1 and/or GATA3 down-regulates Spi1 expression in pro-T cells, while deletion of these factors after Spi1 down-regulation reactivates its expression. Leveraging the stage specificities of repression and transcription factor binding revealed an unconventional but functional site in Spi1 intron 2. Acute Cas9-mediated deletion or disruption of the Runx and GATA motifs in this element reactivates silenced Spi1 expression in a pro-T cell line, substantially more than disruption of other candidate elements, and counteracts the repression of Spi1 in primary pro-T cells during commitment. Thus, Runx1 and GATA3 work stage specifically through an intronic silencing element in mouse Spi1 to control strength and maintenance of Spi1 repression during T lineage commitment.
BACKGROUND: In mammalians, hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) arise in the dorsal aorta from the hemogenic endothelium, followed by their migration to the fetal liver and to the bone marrow. In zebrafish, the kidney is the site of primary hematopoiesis. In humans, the presence of HSCs in the fetal or adult kidney has not been established.METHODS: We analyzed the presence of HSC markers in the human fetal kidneys by analysis of single-cell datasets. We then analyzed in kidney organoids derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) the presence of hematopoietic markers using transcriptome analyses.RESULTS: Twelve clusters were identified as stromal, endothelial, and nephron cell type-specific markers in the two fetal stage (17 weeks) kidney datasets. Among these, the expression of hematopoietic cells in cluster 9 showed an expression of primitive markers. Moreover, whole transcriptome analysis of our iPSC-derived kidney organoids revealed induction of the primitive hematopoietic transcription factor RUNX1 as found in the human fetal kidney cortex.CONCLUSION: These finding support the presence of cells expressing HSC transcriptome in the human kidney. The mechanisms of the appearance of the cells with the same transcriptional features during iPSC-derived kidney organoid generation require further investigation.
Although defined as a lymphoid surface marker, CD7 is aberrantly expressed on a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia cells and appears to be associated with an inferior response to chemotherapy. Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) is a potentially curative modality but no data has been reported in CD7-positive AML patients. We performed a retrospective analysis involving 141 AML patients who underwent allo-HCT in first morphological complete remission (CR1). The results showed that CD7-positive AML patients had a poor 2-year overall survival (64.5% vs 82.0%, P = 0.040), relapse-free survival (RFS) (56.5% vs 79.4%, P = 0.005), and higher cumulative incidence of relapse (27.0% vs 9.7%, P = 0.003) post-HCT. In addition, expression of CD7 was related to RAS and RUNX1 mutation, and high residual disease level pre-HCT. Multivariate analyses showed CD7 expression at diagnosis was an independent risk factor for RFS (P = 0.016, HR = 0.418) and relapse (P = 0.014, HR = 0.307). We concluded that for AML patients in CR1, CD7 is a negative predictor for allo-transplant outcomes.
Comment in    Cancer Cell. 2021 Jul 12;39(7):904-906.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as integral regulators of pathophysiological processes, but their specific roles and mechanisms in adipose tissue development remain largely unknown. Here, through microarray analysis, co-expression, and tissue specific analysis of adipocyte tissues after fasting for 72 h, we found that Lnc-FR332443 expression was dramatically decreased, as well as the expression of Runx1. The UCSC database and Ensembl database indicated that Lnc-FR332443 is the antisense lncRNA of Runx1. Lnc-FR332443 and Runx1 are highly enriched in adipose tissue and downregulated during adipogenic differentiation. Adipose tissue-specific knockdown of Lnc-FR332443 increased fat mass in vivo, and specific knockdown of Lnc-FR332443 in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes promoted adipogenic differentiation. In this process, Runx1 expression was decreased when Lnc-FR332443 was downregulated in adipocytes or 3T3-L1 preadipocytes, and vice versa, when Lnc-FR332443 was upregulated, the expression of Runx1 was increased. However, overexpression of Runx1 decreased the expression of the adipocyte cell marker genes PPARγ, C/EBPα and FABP4 significantly, while not affected the expression of Lnc-FR332443. Mechanistically, Lnc-FR332443 positively regulates Runx1 expression in mouse adipocytes and suppresses adipocyte differentiation by attenuating the phosphorylation of MAPK-p38 and MAPK-ERK1/2 expression. Thus, this study indicated that Lnc-FR332443 inhibits adipogenesis and which might be a drug target for the prevention and treatment of obesity.
Comment in    J Clin Invest. 2021 Sep 1;131(17):
Like most DNA viruses, herpesviruses precisely deliver their genomes into the sophisticatedly organized nuclei of the infected host cells to initiate subsequent transcription and replication. However, it remains elusive how the viral genome specifically interacts with the host genome and hijacks host transcription machinery. Using pseudorabies virus (PRV) as model virus, we performed chromosome conformation capture assays to demonstrate a genome-wide specific trans-species chromatin interaction between the virus and host. Our data show that the PRV genome is delivered by the host DNA binding protein RUNX1 into the open chromatin and active transcription zone. This facilitates virus hijacking host RNAPII to efficiently transcribe viral genes, which is significantly inhibited by either a RUNX1 inhibitor or RNA interference. Together, these findings provide insights into the chromatin interaction between viral and host genomes and identify new areas of research to advance the understanding of herpesvirus genome transcription.
BACKGROUND: SF3B1 mutations (SF3B1mut ) in myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) frequently involve codon K700E and have a favorable prognosis. The prognostic effect of non-K700E SF3B1mut is uncertain.METHODS: The authors analyzed the clinicopathological features and outcomes of a single-institution series of 94 treatment-naive SF3B1mut MDS patients (18%) and 415 treatment-naive SF3B1wt MDS patients and explored the differences between K700E and non-K700E SF3B1mut MDS.RESULTS: Fifty-five patients (59%) carried K700E. Recurrent non-K700E mutations (39 [41%]) included R625, H662, and K666. Compared with SF3B1mut K700E patients, non-K700E patients had a lower median absolute neutrophil count (1.8 vs 2.4; P = .005) and were frequently "high" according to the Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (19% vs 4%; P = .031). Non-K700E MDS was associated frequently with RUNX1 (26% vs 7%; P = .012) and exclusively with BCOR, IDH2, and SRSF2 mutations. A splicing analysis showed the differential distribution of alternatively spliced events and gene expression profiles between K700 and non-K700E MDS patients. The majority (at least 80%) of SF3B1mut K700E, SF3B1mut non-K700E, and SF3B1wt patients were treated with hypomethylating agents. Over a median follow-up of 16 months, SF3B1mut had superior overall survival (OS) in comparison with SF3B1wt in all MDS patients (not reached vs 25.2 months; P = .0003), in patients with low-grade MDS, and in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS). Compared with SF3B1wt , SF3B1mut K700E had superior outcomes in all MDS (median OS, 25 months vs not reached; P = .0001), in low-grade MDS (median OS, 41.3 months vs not reached; P = .0015), and in MDS-RS (median OS, 22.3 months vs not reached; P = .0001), but no significant difference was seen between non-K700E and SF3B1wt MDS. By multivariable analysis, the absence of SF3B1mut K700E mutations was independently associated with the prognosis.CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the importance of the SF3B1 mutation subtype in MDS risk assessment.LAY SUMMARY: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with SF3B1 mutations are regarded as having a favorable prognosis by both the World Health Organization and the International Working Group for the Prognosis of Myelodysplastic Syndromes. However, this article shows that only MDS patients with SF3B1 K700E mutations have a favorable prognosis (and not MDS patients with SF3B1 mutations involving other codons). This has important implications for refining future MDS subclassification and risk assessment criteria.
The overexpression of cytokine receptor-like factor-2 (CRLF2) identified by anti-thymic stromal lymphopoietin receptor/TSLPR flow cytometry (FCM) has been reported as a screening tool for the identification of BCR-ABL1-like B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/B-ALL with CRLF2 re-arrangement. TSLPR expression was studied prospectively in consecutive 478 B-ALLs (≤ 12 years (n = 244); 13-25 years (n = 129); > 25 years (n = 105)) and correlated with various hematological parameters and end-of-induction measurable residual disease (day 29; MRD ≥ 0.01% by 10-color FCM). TSLPR positivity in ≥ 10% leukemic cells was detected in 14.6% (n = 70) of B-ALLs. CRLF2 re-arrangement was detected in eight cases (11.4%) including P2RY8-CRLF2 (n = 6), and IgH-CRLF2 (n = 2) with a median TSLPR positivity of 48.8% and 99% leukemic cells, respectively. Recurrent gene fusions/RGF (BCR-ABL1 (17.1%); ETV6-RUNX1 (4.2%), TCF3-PBX1 (1.4%)), other BCR-ABL1-like chimeric gene fusions/CGFs (PDGFRB-rearrangement (2.9%), IgH-EPOR (1.4%)), CRLF2 extra-copies/hyperdiploidy (17.1%), and IgH translocation without a known partner (10%) were also detected in TSLPR-positive patients. CD20 positivity (52.9% vs 38.5%; p = 0.02) as well as iAMP21 (4.3% vs 0.5%; p = 0.004) was significantly more frequent in TSLPR-positive cases. TSLPR-positive patients did not show a significantly higher MRD, compared to TSLPR-negative cases (37% vs 33%). Increasing the threshold cut-off (from ≥ 10 to > 50% or > 74%) increased the specificity to 88% and 100% respectively in identifying CRLF2 translocation. TSLPR expression is not exclusive for CRLF2 translocations and can be seen with various other RGFs, necessitating their testing before its application in diagnostic algorithms. In patients with high TSLPR positivity (> 50%), the testing may be restricted to CRLF2 aberrancies, while patients with 10-50% TSLPR positivity need to be tested for both CRLF2- and non-CRLF2 BCR-ABL1-like CGFs.
DOI: 10.1038/s41375-021-01268-4PMCID: PMC8478654PMID: 34148054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Across species, hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) arise during embryogenesis from a specialized arterial population, termed hemogenic endothelium. Here, we describe a mechanistic role for the epigenetic regulator, Enhancer of zeste homolog-1 (Ezh1), in vertebrate HSPC production via regulation of hemogenic commitment. Loss of ezh1 in zebrafish embryos favored acquisition of hemogenic (gata2b) and HSPC (runx1) fate at the expense of the arterial program (ephrinb2a, dll4). In contrast, ezh1 overexpression blocked hematopoietic progression via maintenance of arterial gene expression. The related Polycomb group subunit, Ezh2, functioned in a non-redundant, sequential manner, whereby inhibition had no impact on arterial identity, but was capable of blocking ezh1-knockdown-associated HSPC expansion. Single-cell RNA sequencing across ezh1 genotypes revealed a dropout of ezh1+/- cells among arterial endothelium associated with positive regulation of gene transcription. Exploitation of Ezh1/2 modulation has potential functional relevance for improving in vitro HSPC differentiation from induced pluripotent stem cell sources.
Most patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) can be cured with combined all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and arsenic trioxide therapy, which induces the destruction of PML-RARA, the initiating fusion protein for this disease. However, the underlying mechanisms by which PML-RARA initiates and maintains APL cells are still not clear. Therefore, we identified genes that are dysregulated by PML-RARA in mouse and human APL cells and prioritized GATA2 for functional studies because it is highly expressed in preleukemic cells expressing PML-RARA, its high expression persists in transformed APL cells, and spontaneous somatic mutations of GATA2 occur during APL progression in mice and humans. These and other findings suggested that GATA2 may be upregulated to thwart the proliferative signal generated by PML-RARA and that its inactivation by mutation (and/or epigenetic silencing) may accelerate disease progression in APL and other forms of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Indeed, biallelic knockout of Gata2 with CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing increased the serial replating efficiency of PML-RARA-expressing myeloid progenitors (as well as progenitors expressing RUNX1-RUNX1T1, or deficient for Cebpa), increased mouse APL penetrance, and decreased latency. Restoration of Gata2 expression suppressed PML-RARA-driven aberrant self-renewal and leukemogenesis. Conversely, addback of a mutant GATA2R362G protein associated with APL and AML minimally suppressed PML-RARA-induced aberrant self-renewal, suggesting that it is a loss-of-function mutation. These studies reveal a potential role for Gata2 as a tumor suppressor in AML and suggest that restoration of its function (when inactivated) may provide benefit for AML patients.
KIT D816V mutation within exon 17 has been particularly reported as one of the poor prognostic factors in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with RUNX1-RUNX1T1. The exact frequency and the prognostic impact of KIT D816V minor clones at diagnosis were not examined. In this study, the minor clones were examined and the prognostic significance of KIT D816V mutation in pediatric patients was investigated. Consequently, 24 KIT D816V mutations (7.2%) in 335 pediatric patients were identified, and 12 of 24 were only detected via the digital droplet polymerase chain reaction method. All 12 patients were confined in core binding factor (CBF)-AML patients. The 5 year event-free survival of the patients with KIT D816V mutation was significantly inferior to those without KIT D816V mutation (44.1% [95% confidence interval (CI), 16.0%-69.4%] vs. 74.7% [95% CI, 63.0%-83.2%] P-value = 0.02, respectively). The 5 year overall survival was not different between the two groups (92.9% [95% CI, 59.0%-NA vs. 89.7% [95% CI, 69.6%-96.8%] P-value = 0.607, respectively). In this study, KIT D816V minor clones in patients with CBF-AML were confirmed and KIT D816V was considered as a risk factor for relapse in patients with RUNX1-RUNX1T1-positive AML.
Glycans attached to immunoglobulin G (IgG) directly affect this antibody effector functions and regulate inflammation at several levels. The composition of IgG glycome changes significantly with age. In women, the most notable change coincides with the perimenopausal period. Aiming to investigate the effect of estrogen on IgG glycosylation, we analysed IgG and total serum glycomes in 36 healthy premenopausal women enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue (GnRHAG) leuprolide acetate to lower gonadal steroids to postmenopausal levels and then randomized to transdermal placebo or estradiol (E2) patch. The suppression of gonadal hormones induced significant changes in the IgG glycome, while E2 supplementation was sufficient to prevent changes. The observed glycan changes suggest that depletion of E2 primarily affects B cell glycosylation, while liver glycosylation stays mostly unchanged. To determine whether previously identified IgG GWAS hits RUNX1, RUNX3, SPINK4, and ELL2 are involved in downstream signaling mechanisms, linking E2 with IgG glycosylation, we used the FreeStyle 293-F transient system expressing IgG antibodies with stably integrated CRISPR/dCas9 expression cassettes for gene up- and downregulation. RUNX3 and SPINK4 upregulation using dCas9-VPR resulted in a decreased IgG galactosylation and, in the case of RUNX3, a concomitant increase in IgG agalactosylation.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) can act as both an activator and a repressor. Here we show that CRISPR-mediated deletion of Runx1 in mouse metanephric mesenchyme-derived mK4 cells results in large-scale genome-wide changes to chromatin accessibility and gene expression. Open chromatin regions near down-regulated loci enriched for Runx sites in mK4 cells lose chromatin accessibility in Runx1 knockout cells, despite remaining Runx2-bound. Unexpectedly, regions near upregulated genes are depleted of Runx sites and are instead enriched for Zeb transcription factor binding sites. Re-expressing Zeb2 in Runx1 knockout cells restores suppression, and CRISPR mediated deletion of Zeb1 and Zeb2 phenocopies the gained expression and chromatin accessibility changes seen in Runx1KO due in part to subsequent activation of factors like Grhl2. These data confirm that Runx1 activity is uniquely needed to maintain open chromatin at many loci, and demonstrate that Zeb proteins are required and sufficient to maintain Runx1-dependent genome-scale repression.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology and Tumor Biology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University.(2)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University.
ETV6/RUNX1 gene fusion is the most common chromosomal translocation abnormality occurred in pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Compared with ETV6-RUNX1-negative patients, ETV6-RUNX1-positive patients possess more improved treatment strategies but higher risk to relapse. In this research, the potential gene interaction networks were constructed intending for elucidating the pathogenesis of B-ALL. We performed the weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) to assess the involvement of lncRNA-mRNA pairs in B-ALL patients consisting of 24 ETV6-RUNX1-positive patients and 18 ETV6-RUNX1-negative patients and found a module that was significantly associated with positive/negative trait. Gene Ontology analysis showed that mRNAs in this module were enriched in the positive regulation of MAPK cascade, positive regulation of JNK cascade, and myeloid cell differentiation pathway. To further investigate the relationship between lncRNAs and mRNAs in this significant module, we constructed the lncRNA-mRNA co-expression network. 3 lncRNAs (RP11-170J3.2, RP11-135F9.1 and RP1-151B14.9) were found at the core of the lncRNA-mRNA co-expression network, which had the most co-expression connections with mRNAs. And several related mRNAs (ACTN1, TNFRSF21 and NLRP3) had a significant correlation with the patient survival prediction. Our findings may explicate the pathogenesis of B-ALL, and the disease-associated genes could provide clues to find novel biomarkers for prognosis.
The clinically ideal time point and optimal approach for the assessment of measurable residual disease (MRD) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are still inconclusive. We investigated the clinical value of multiparameter flow cytometry-based MRD (MFC MRD) after induction (n = 492) and two cycles of consolidation (n = 421). The latter time point was proved as a superior indicator with independent prognostic significance for both relapse-free survival (RFS, HR = 3.635, 95% CI: 2.433-5.431, P <0.001) and overall survival (OS: HR = 3.511, 95% CI: 2.191-5.626, P <0.001). Furthermore, several representative molecular MRD markers were compared with the MFC MRD. Both approaches can establish prognostic value in patients with NPM1 mutations, and FLT3, C-KIT, or N-RAS mutations involved in kinase-related signaling pathways, while the combination of both techniques further refined the risk stratification. The detection of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion transcripts achieved a considerable net reclassification improvement in predicting the prognosis. Conversely, for patients with biallelic CEBPA or DNMT3A mutations, only the MFC method was recommended due to the poor prognostic discriminability in tracking mutant transcripts. In conclusion, this study demonstrated that the MFC MRD after two consolidation cycles independently predicted clinical outcomes, and the integration of MFC and molecular MRD should depend on different types of AML-related genetic lesions.
Based on isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH) alterations, lower grade glioma (LGG) is divided into IDH mutant and wild type subgroups. However, the further classification of IDH wild type LGG was unclear. Here, IDH wild type LGG patients in The Cancer Genome Atlas and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas were divided into two sub-clusters using non-negative matrix factorization. IDH wild type LGG patients in sub-cluster2 had prolonged overall survival and low frequency of CDKN2A alterations and low immune infiltrations. Differentially expressed genes in sub-cluster1 were positively correlated with RUNX1 transcription factor. Moreover, IDH wild type LGG patients with higher stromal score or immune score were positively correlated with RUNX1 transcription factor. RUNX1 and its target gene REXO2 were up-regulated in sub-cluster1 and associated with the worse prognosis of IDH wild type LGG. RUNX1 and REXO2 were associated with the higher immune infiltrations. Furthermore, RUNX1 and REXO2 were correlated with the worse prognosis of LGG or glioma. IDH wild type LGG in sub-cluster2 was hyper-methylated. REXO2 hyper-methylation was associated with the favorable prognosis of LGG or glioma. At last, we showed that, age, tumor grade and REXO2 expression were independent prognostic factors in IDH wild type LGG.
Regulatory interactions mediated by transcription factors (TFs) make up complex networks that control cellular behavior. Fully understanding these gene regulatory networks (GRNs) offers greater insight into the consequences of disease-causing perturbations than can be achieved by studying single TF binding events in isolation. Chromosomal translocations of the lysine methyltransferase 2A (KMT2A) gene produce KMT2A fusion proteins such as KMT2A-AFF1 (previously MLL-AF4), causing poor prognosis acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALLs) that sometimes relapse as acute myeloid leukemias (AMLs). KMT2A-AFF1 drives leukemogenesis through direct binding and inducing the aberrant overexpression of key genes, such as the anti-apoptotic factor BCL2 and the proto-oncogene MYC However, studying direct binding alone does not incorporate possible network-generated regulatory outputs, including the indirect induction of gene repression. To better understand the KMT2A-AFF1-driven regulatory landscape, we integrated ChIP-seq, patient RNA-seq, and CRISPR essentiality screens to generate a model GRN. This GRN identified several key transcription factors such as RUNX1 that regulate target genes downstream of KMT2A-AFF1 using feed-forward loop (FFL) and cascade motifs. A core set of nodes are present in both ALL and AML, and CRISPR screening revealed several factors that help mediate response to the drug venetoclax. Using our GRN, we then identified a KMT2A-AFF1:RUNX1 cascade that represses CASP9, as well as KMT2A-AFF1-driven FFLs that regulate BCL2 and MYC through combinatorial TF activity. This illustrates how our GRN can be used to better connect KMT2A-AFF1 behavior to downstream pathways that contribute to leukemogenesis, and potentially predict shifts in gene expression that mediate drug response.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) remains the most effective postremission therapy conferring the chance of cure for acute myeloid leukemia (AML), including elderly patients. Although the number of transplantations for elderly patients with AML (eAML) is increasing owing to greater availability of various graft sources together with the adoption of advanced supportive care and reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen, there are relatively limited data on the impact of donor type in eAML compared to younger patients. In addition, few studies have evaluated the role of pretransplantation measurable residual disease (MRD) in the elderly population. Given the lack of prospective comparative study, we retrospectively compared transplantation outcomes of elderly patient with AML receiving allo-HSCT from matched sibling donor (MSD-HSCT), matched unrelated donor (MUD-HSCT) or haploidentical related donor (Haplo-HSCT), or autologous HSCT (Auto-HSCT). A total of 154 patients with a median age of 63 years (range 60-74) underwent MSD-HSCT (n = 41), MUD-HSCT (n = 36), Haplo-HSCT (n = 55), or Auto-HSCT (n = 22) for AML. RIC regimens were used in the majority of patients. In Haplo-HSCT, T-cell-replete peripheral blood stem cells with unique RIC regimens using anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG)-based GVHD prophylaxis was used. In the analysis, adjustment for MRD status at the time of transplantation was performed. MRD was measured by the quantitative molecular assays of the targets, including RUNX1-RUNX1T1, CBFB-MYH11, and NPM1, or WT1 in the absence of abnormalities in the aforementioned targets. At a median follow-up of 48 months, survival rates were similar between different donor types, whereas nonrelapse mortality (NRM) was lower in MUD-HSCT compared to MSD-HSCT (P = .002). MSD-HSCT, in which the majority of patients received a conditioning regimen not including ATG, showed more frequent severe chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD). The major causes of non-relapse deaths in MSD-HSCT were related to cGVHD (71%), whereas infectious complications were mainly related to NRM in Haplo-HSCT (50%) or Auto-HSCT (100%). In the MUD-HSCT, GVHD (57%) and infection (43%) contributed similarly to non-relapse death. Cytomegalovirus infection was more frequent in Haplo-HSCT. In multivariate models, pre-transplant MRD-positivity was an independent risk factor for relapse (P = .001), whereas older age (P = .002) and the hematopoietic cell transplantation-comorbidity index (P = .009) were useful in predicting NRM. The current study demonstrated comparable outcomes after alternative and matched sibling donor HSCT in eAML aged 60 years or older, and the results also suggest the necessity for more sophisticated strategies to reduce NRM or relapse according to each donor type. The usefulness of molecular MRD assays demonstrated herein will facilitate trials for MRD-driven decision-making or risk-adaptive approaches in eAML.
Targeted RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a highly accurate method for sequencing transcripts of interest with a high resolution and throughput. However, RNA-seq has not been widely performed in clinical molecular laboratories because of the complexity of data processing and interpretation. We developed and validated a customized RNA-seq panel and data processing protocol for fusion detection using 4 analytical validation samples and 51 clinical samples, covering seven types of hematologic malignancies. Analytical validation showed that the results for target gene coverage and between- and within-run precision and linearity tests were reliable. Using clinical samples, RNA-seq based on filtering and prioritization strategies detected all 25 known fusions previously found by multiplex reverse transcriptase-PCR and fluorescence in situ hybridization. It also detected nine novel fusions. Known fusions detected by RNA-seq included two IGH rearrangements supported by expression analysis. Novel fusions included six that targeted just one partner gene. In addition, 18 disease- and drug resistance-associated transcript variants in ABL1, GATA2, IKZF1, JAK2, RUNX1, and WT1 were designated simultaneously. Expression analysis showed distinct clustering according to subtype and lineage. In conclusion, this study showed that our customized RNA-seq system had a reliable and stable performance for fusion detection, with enhanced diagnostic yield for hematologic malignancies in a clinical diagnostic setting.
OBJECTIVES: To study the molecular mechanisms of miR-18a aggravating intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) by increasing the blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability.METHODS: Brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMVECs) and astrocytes were isolated, identified, and co-cultured to establish in vitro BBB model. BMVECs co-cultured with astrocytes were stimulated with or without thrombase and then transfected with miR-18a mimic and/or si-RUNX1. The trans-endothelial electric resistance (TEER) and FlNa flux were measured, respectively. The potential interaction between RUNX1 and miR-18a was also detected. Additionally, SD rats were injected with fresh autologous non-anticoagulant blood into the brain basal ganglia to establish ICH model. After administration with miR-18a, sh-miR-18a, miR-18a+RUNX1, sh-miR-18a+sh-RUNX1, respectively, BBB permeability was assessed.RESULTS: After overexpressing miR-18a, the expression levels of RUNX1, Occludin and ZO-1 were decreased, but the Evan's blue contents and brain water contents were significantly increased in ICH rats. Additionally, rat neurological function was impaired, accompanying with an increase of TEER and fluorescein sodium flux. MiR-18a was a direct target of RUNX1 and it could bind to the promoters of RUNX1 to inhibit the expression of Occuldin and ZO-1. Consistently, these phenomena could also be observed in the corresponding cell model. Conversely, miR-18a knockdown or RUNX1 overexpression just presented an improvement effect on ICH.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-18a plays a critical role during ICH because it targets to RUNX1 to inhibit the expression of tight junction proteins (Occludin and ZO-1) and then disrupt BBB permeability. MiR-18a might be a probable therapeutic target for ICH diseases.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Neointimal hyperplasia (NIH) is the fundamental cause for vascular diseases and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) dysregulation has been widely implicated in NIH. Neutrophil elastase is a potential therapeutic target for multiple diseases. We investigated the role of neutrophil elastase in VSMC functions and injury-induced NIH and explored the therapeutic potential of targeting neutrophil elastase in NIH.EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: VSMCs were used to analyse the effects of neutrophil elastase. Proteomic analysis was used to identify potential neutrophil elastase targets. Artery injury model and neutrophil elastase inhibitor GW311616A were used to investigate the role of neutrophil elastase in NIH.KEY RESULTS: TNF-α up-regulated neutrophil elastase in VSMCs through modulating GAPBα/Runx1/CEBPα/c-Myb signalling. Up-regulated neutrophil elastase promoted VSMC migration, proliferation and inflammation. Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was identified as a target protein for neutrophil elastase in VSMCs and the TLR4/MyD88/IRAK1/TRAF6/NF-κB regulatory axis was shown to be the signalling pathway for neutrophil elastase in VSMC pathology. Importantly, TLR4 inhibition abolished neutrophil elastase-mediated VSMC dysregulation. Injury-induced NIH was significantly reduced in both neutrophil elastase-deficient mice and mice treated with GW311616A. The formation of neutrophil extracellular traps was impaired in injured arteries from neutrophil elastase-deficient mice. Finally, a similar role for neutrophil elastase in human VSMC pathology was confirmed and we observed higher expression levels of neutrophil elastase but lower expression levels of TLR4 in human atherosclerotic lesions.CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: We provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying NIH and identify neutrophil elastase as a potential therapeutic target for vascular disease.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 21;138(16):1382-1384.
Nuclear magnetic resonance therapy (NMRT) is discussed as a participant in repair processes regarding cartilage and as an influence in pain signaling. To substantiate the application of NMRT, the underlying mechanisms at the cellular level were studied. In this study microRNA (miR) was extracted from human primary healthy and osteoarthritis (OA) chondrocytes after NMR treatment and was sequenced by the Ion PI Hi-Q™ Sequencing 200 system. In addition, T/C-28a2 chondrocytes grown under hypoxic conditions were studied for IL-1β induced changes in expression on RNA and protein level. HDAC activity an NAD(+)/NADH was measured by luminescence detection. In OA chondrocytes miR-106a, miR-27a, miR-34b, miR-365a and miR-424 were downregulated. This downregulation was reversed by NMRT. miR-365a-5p is known to directly target HDAC and NF-ĸB, and a decrease in HDAC activity by NMRT was detected. NAD+/NADH was reduced by NMR treatment in OA chondrocytes. Under hypoxic conditions NMRT changed the expression profile of HIF1, HIF2, IGF2, MMP3, MMP13, and RUNX1. We conclude that NMRT changes the miR profile and modulates the HDAC and the NAD(+)/NADH signaling in human chondrocytes. These findings underline once more that NMRT counteracts IL-1β induced changes by reducing catabolic effects, thereby decreasing inflammatory mechanisms under OA by changing NF-ĸB signaling.
The pathogenic mechanisms underlying nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) are beginning to be understood. RUNX1 is involved in angiogenesis, which is crucial in inflammation, but its role in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) remains unclear. The aim of this study was to analyze RUNX1 mRNA hepatic and jejunal abundance in women with morbid obesity (MO) and NAFLD. RUNX1, lipid metabolism-related genes, and TLRs in women with MO and normal liver (NL, n = 28), NAFLD (n = 41) (simple steatosis (SS, n = 24), or NASH (n = 17)) were analyzed by RT-qPCR. The RUNX1 hepatic expression was higher in SS than in NL or NASH, as likewise confirmed by immunohistochemistry. An increased expression of hepatic FAS was found in NAFLD. Hepatic RUNX1 correlated positively with FAS. There were no significant differences in the jejunum RUNX1 expressions in the different groups. Jejunal FXR expression was lower in NASH than in NL, while the TLR9 expression increased as NAFLD progressed. Jejunal RUNX1 correlated positively with jejunal PPARγ, TLR4, and TLR5. In summary, the hepatic expression of RUNX1 seems to be involved in the first steps of the NAFLD process; however, in NASH, it seems to be downregulated. Our findings provide important insights into the role of RUNX1 in the context of NAFLD/NASH, suggesting a protective role.
We report on 45 patients with myeloid neoplasms and concurrent Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) V617F and KIT proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase (KIT) D816V (JAK2pos. /KITpos. ) mutations, which are individually identified in >60% of patients with classical myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) and >90% of patients with systemic mastocytosis (SM) respectively. In SM, the concurrent presence of a clonal non-mast cell neoplasm [SM with associated haematological neoplasm (SM-AHN)] usually constitutes a distinct subtype associated with poor survival. All 45 patients presented with a heterogeneous combination of clinical/morphological features typical of the individual disorders (e.g. leuco-/erythro-/thrombocytosis and elevated lactate dehydrogenase for MPN; elevated serum tryptase and alkaline phosphatase for SM). Overlapping features identified in 70% of patients included splenomegaly, cytopenia(s), bone marrow fibrosis and additional somatic mutations. Molecular dissection revealed discordant development of variant allele frequency for both mutations and absence of concurrently positive single-cell derived colonies, indicating disease evolution in two independent clones rather than monoclonal disease in >60% of patients examined. Overall survival of JAK2pos. /KITpos. patients without additional somatic high-risk mutations [HRM, e.g. in serine and arginine-rich splicing factor 2 (SRSF2), additional sex combs like-1 (ASXL1) or Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1)] at 5 years was 77%, indicating that the mutual impact of JAK2 V617F and KIT D816V on prognosis is fundamentally different from the adverse impact of additional HRM in the individual disorders.
Acute myeloid leukemia with runt-related transcription factor 1 gene mutation (RUNX1+ AML) is associated with inferior response rates and outcome after conventional chemotherapy. We performed a retrospective, registry-based analysis to elucidate the prognostic value of RUNX1 mutation after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (alloSCT). All consecutive adults undergoing alloSCT for AML in first complete remission (CR1) between 2013 and 2019 with complete information on conventional cytogenetics and RUNX1 mutational status were included. Endpoints of interest were cumulative relapse incidence, non-relapse mortality, overall and leukemia-free survival (OS/LFS), and GvHD-free/relapse-free survival. A total of 674 patients (183 RUNX1+, 491 RUNX1-) were identified, with >85% presenting as de novo AML. Median follow-up was 16.4 (RUNX1+) and 21.9 (RUNX1-) months. Survival rates showed no difference between RUNX1+ and RUNX1- patients either in univariate or multivariate analysis (2-year OS: 67.7 vs. 66.1%, p = 0.7; 2-year LFS: 61.1 vs. 60.8%, p = 0.62). Multivariate analysis identified age, donor type and poor cytogenetics as risk factors for inferior outcome. Among patients with RUNX+ AML, older age, reduced intensity conditioning and minimal residual disease at alloSCT predicted inferior outcome. Our data provide evidence that the negative influence of RUNX1 mutations in patients with AML can be overcome by transplantation in CR1.
Myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPNs) are a heterogeneous group of hematologic malignancies characterized by dysplastic and myeloproliferative overlapping features in the bone marrow and blood. The occurrence of the disease is related to age, prior history of MPN or MDS, and recent cytotoxic or growth factor therapy, but it rarely develops after acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We report a rare case of a patient diagnosed with AML with t(8; 21)(q22; q22) who received systematic chemotherapy. After 4 years of follow-up, MDS/MPN-unclassifiable occurred without signs of primary AML recurrence.
BACKGROUND: The heterogenous cytogenetic and molecular variations were harbored by AML patients, some of which are related with AML pathogenesis and clinical outcomes. We aimed to uncover the intrinsic expression profiles correlating with prognostic genetic abnormalities by WGCNA.METHODS: We downloaded the clinical and expression dataset from BeatAML, TCGA and GEO database. Using R (version 4.0.2) and 'WGCNA' package, the co-expression modules correlating with the ELN2017 prognostic markers were identified (R2 ≥ 0.4, p < 0.01). ORA detected the enriched pathways for the key co-expression modules. The patients in TCGA cohort were randomly assigned into the training set (50%) and testing set (50%). The LASSO penalized regression analysis was employed to build the prediction model, fitting OS to the expression level of hub genes by 'glmnet' package. Then the testing and 2 independent validation sets (GSE12417 and GSE37642) were used to validate the diagnostic utility and accuracy of the model.RESULTS: A total of 37 gene co-expression modules and 973 hub genes were identified for the BeatAML cohort. We found that 3 modules were significantly correlated with genetic markers (the 'lightyellow' module for NPM1 mutation, the 'saddlebrown' module for RUNX1 mutation, the 'lightgreen' module for TP53 mutation). ORA revealed that the 'lightyellow' module was mainly enriched in DNA-binding transcription factor activity and activation of HOX genes. The 'saddlebrown' module was enriched in immune response process. And the 'lightgreen' module was predominantly enriched in mitosis cell cycle process. The LASSO- regression analysis identified 6 genes (NFKB2, NEK9, HOXA7, APRC5L, FAM30A and LOC105371592) with non-zero coefficients. The risk score generated from the 6-gene model, was associated with ELN2017 risk stratification, relapsed disease, and prior MDS history. The 5-year AUC for the model was 0.822 and 0.824 in the training and testing sets, respectively. Moreover, the diagnostic utility of the model was robust when it was employed in 2 validation sets (5-year AUC 0.743-0.79).CONCLUSIONS: We established the co-expression network signature correlated with the ELN2017 recommended prognostic genetic abnormalities in AML. The 6-gene prediction model for AML survival was developed and validated by multiple datasets.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to report the RNA sequencing profile according to the presence or absence of sarcopenia in elderly patients with osteoporotic hip fracture. Therefore, an important genetic factor candidate for sarcopenia causing hip fracture in elderly with osteoporosis has been identified.METHODS: The patient group involved subjects over 65 years who had undergone hip fracture surgery. Among 323 hip fracture (HF) patients identified from May 2017 to December 2019, 162 HF patients (90 non-sarcopenia and 72 sarcopenia groups), excluding subjects with high energy trauma and non-osteoporosis, were finally included in the analysis. For RNA sequencing, each patient with hand grip strength (HGS) values in the top 10% were enrolled in the control group and with the bottom 10% in the patient group. After excluding patients with poor tissue quality, 6 patients and 5 patients were selected for sarcopenia and non-sarcopenia groups, respectively. For qPCR validation, each patient with HGS values in the top 20% and bottom 20% was enrolled in the control and patient groups, respectively. After excluding patients with poor tissue quality, 12 patients and 12 patients were enrolled in the sarcopenia and non-sarcopenia groups, respectively. Sarcopenia was deﬁned according to the Asia Working Group for Sarcopenia (AWGS) criteria for low muscle strength (hand grip strength below 18 ​kg in women and 28 ​kg in men) and low muscle mass (SMI below 5.4 ​kg/m2 in women and 7.0 ​kg/m2 in men). The libraries were prepared for 100 bp paired-end sequencing using TruSeq Stranded mRNA Sample Preparation Kit (Illumina, CA, USA). The gene expression counts were supplied to Deseq2 to extract possible gene sets as differentially expressed genes (DEG) that discriminate between sarcopenia and non-sarcopenia groups that were carefully assigned by clinical observation. For the classification of the candidate genes from DEG analysis, we used the public databases; gene ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). Quantitative real-time PCR was performed for validation.RESULTS: Samples collected were subjected to RNAseq using the Illumina platform. A total of 11 samples from both sarcopenia and non-sarcopenia groups were sequenced. Fifteen genes (RUNX 1, NGFR, CH3L1, BCL3, PLA2G2A, MYBPH, TEP1, SEMA6B, CSPG4, ACSL5, SLC25A3, NDUFB5, CYC1, ACAT1, and TCAP) were identified as differentially expressed genes (DEG) in both the groups.In the qPCR results, the expression levels of SLC25A3 and TCAP gene in the OS group were significantly lower than in the non-OS groups whereas an increase in RUNX1 mRNA level was observed in the OS samples (p ​< ​0.05).CONCLUSIONS: In summary, this study detected gene expression difference according to the presence or absence of sarcopenia in elderly osteoporosis female patients with hip fracture. We have also identified 15 important genes (RUNX 1, NGFR, CH3L1, BCL3, PLA2G2A, MYBPH, TEP1, SEMA6B, CSPG4, ACSL5, SLC25A3, NDUFB5, CYC1, ACAT1, TCAP), a few GO categories and biological pathways that may be associated with the osteosarcopenia. Our study may provide effective means for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment sarcopenia in elderly osteoporosis female patients.THE TRANSLATIONAL POTENTIAL OF THIS ARTICLE: These findings provide a novel insight into the effects of aging on the response in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis. Further studies are underway to identify the specific signalling pathways involved. These results reveal potential therapeutic targets that could aid the regenerative capacity of aging skeletal muscle.
BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence has shown that circular RNAs (circRNAs) serve as vital regulators in tumour progression. In this study, we focused on the functions of circ_0027599 in gastric cancer (GC) progression.METHODS: The levels of circ_0027599, runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) mRNA and microRNA-21-5p (miR-21-5p) were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assay. The protein levels of RUNX1, E-Cadherin, vimentin and N-Cadherin were measured by Western blot assay. Cell viability, colony formation, metastasis and cell cycle process were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, colony formation assay, transwell assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. The interaction between circ_0027599 and miR-21-5p and the interaction between miR-21-5p and RUNX1 were verified by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. The role of circ_0027599 in tumour growth in vivo was investigated by murine xenograft model assay.RESULTS: Circ_0027599 and RUNX1 were downregulated in GC tissues and cells. Circ_0027599 level was associated with the overall survival of GC patients. Circ_0027599 or RUNX1 overexpression inhibited GC cell viability, colony formation, migration, invasion and cell cycle process in vitro. For mechanism analysis, circ_0027599 positively regulated RUNX1 expression via functioning as the sponge for miR-21-5p. RUNX1 inhibition reversed circ_0027599 overexpression mediated malignant behaviours of GC cells. Moreover, circ_0027599 overexpression repressed tumour growth in vivo.CONCLUSION: Circ_0027599 overexpression repressed GC progression via modulation of miR-21-5p/RUNX1 axis, which might illumine a novel therapeutic target for GC.
Myelodysplastic syndrome/myeloproliferative neoplasm (MDS/MPN) overlap syndromes show a male predominance and men with MDS/MPN have worse outcomes, but it is unknown if the mutational burden differs between genders. We reviewed 167 patients with MDS/MPN and found that men had worse overall survival [hazard ratio (HR) 2·09, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1·16-3·75; P = 0·013] independent of subtype, Revised International Prognostic Scoring System score and age at diagnosis. We analysed the genomic data of a subset of 100 patients. Men had 0·88 more somatic mutations on average (95% CI 0·20-1·56, P = 0·011) independent of subtype, sample source and blast percentage. More somatic mutations was associated with a higher incidence of transformation to acute myeloid leukaemia (subdistribution HR 1·30, 95% CI 1·01-1·70; P = 0·046). Men had 0·70 more mutations in high-risk genes [additional sex combs like-1 (ASXL1), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), SET binding protein 1 (SETBP1), NRAS proto-oncogene, GTPase (NRAS), stromal antigen 2 (STAG2)] on average (95% CI 0·11-1·29, P = 0·021), and 13-times higher odds of harbouring an EZH2 mutation (95% CI 1·64-102·94, P = 0·015). The presence of an EZH2 mutation was associated with worse survival among men (HR 2·98, 95% CI 1·1-8·0; P = 0·031). Our present findings suggest that the worse outcomes in men with MDS/MPN are associated with a higher number of somatic mutations, especially in high-risk genes. These results warrant validation in larger cohorts and investigation of the underlying mechanisms.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most lethal human cancers. It thrives in a malnourished environment; however, little is known about the mechanisms by which PDAC cells actively promote aerobic glycolysis to maintain their metabolic needs. Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) was used to identify differentially expressed miRNAs. The expression pattern of miR-30d in normal and PDAC tissues was studied by in situ hybridization. The role of miR-30d/RUNX1 in vitro and in vivo was evaluated by CCK8 assay and clonogenic formation as well as transwell experiment, subcutaneous xenograft model and liver metastasis model, respectively. Glucose uptake, ATP and lactate production were tested to study the regulatory effect of miR-30d/RUNX1 on aerobic glycolysis in PDAC cells. Quantitative real-time PCR, western blot, Chip assay, promoter luciferase activity, RIP, MeRIP, and RNA stability assay were used to explore the molecular mechanism of YTHDC1/miR-30d/RUNX1 in PDAC. Here, we discover that miR-30d expression was remarkably decreased in PDAC tissues and associated with good prognosis, contributed to the suppression of tumor growth and metastasis, and attenuation of Warburg effect. Mechanistically, the m6A reader YTHDC1 facilitated the biogenesis of mature miR-30d via m6A-mediated regulation of mRNA stability. Then, miR-30d inhibited aerobic glycolysis through regulating SLC2A1 and HK1 expression by directly targeting the transcription factor RUNX1, which bound to the promoters of the SLC2A1 and HK1 genes. Moreover, miR-30d was clinically inversely correlated with RUNX1, SLC2A1 and HK1, which function as adverse prognosis factors for overall survival in PDAC tissues. Overall, we demonstrated that miR-30d is a functional and clinical tumor-suppressive gene in PDAC. Our findings further uncover that miR-30d is a novel target for YTHDC1 through m6A modification, and miR-30d represses pancreatic tumorigenesis via suppressing aerobic glycolysis.
RNA-binding motif protein 24 (RBM24) acts as a multifunctional determinant of cell fate, proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation during development by regulating premRNA splicing and mRNA stability. It is also implicated in carcinogenesis, but the functions of RBM24 in bladder cancer (BC) remain unclear. In the present study, we revealed that RBM24 was upregulated in BC tissues. Importantly, we found that a higher level of RBM24 was correlated with poor prognosis in BC patients. Overexpression of RBM24 promoted BC cell proliferation, while depletion of RBM24 inhibited BC cell proliferation in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, RBM24 positively regulated Runx1t1 expression in BC cells by binding to and enhancing Runx1t1 mRNA stability. Furthermore, Runx1t1 in turn promoted RBM24 expression by interacting with the transcription factor TCF4 and suppressing the transcription of miR-625-5p, which directly targets RBM24 and suppresses RBM24 expression. RBM24-regulated BC cell proliferation was moderated via the Runx1t1/TCF4/miR-625-5p feedback loop. These results indicate that the RBM24/Runx1t1/TCF4/miR-625-5p positive feedback loop participates in BC progression. Disruption of this pathway may be a potential therapeutic strategy for BC treatment.
BACKGROUND: The translocation t(8;21)(q22;q22) is one of the most frequent chromosomal abnormalities associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) sub type M2. About 3-5 % of cases with additional chromosomal abnormalities, including structural and numerical ones, are reported to include a complex translocation t(8;21;N).CASE PRESENTATION: Here we report a chromosome rearrangement observed in a 19 years-old female diagnosed with AML-M2. When subjected to (molecular) cytogenetic analyses a complex three-way translocation involving chromosomes 8, 17 and 21 was detected, forming not a t(8;21;17) as one would expect. Real time-polymerase chain reaction analysis using 6 AML specific markers showed the presence of RUNX1/RUNX1T1 fusion gene transcripts identical to those found in classical translocation t(8;21) coupled with presence of FLT3-ITD mutation identified by fragment analysis.CONCLUSIONS: The present case highlights importance of complex rearrangements rarely encountered in AML, suggesting that all involved regions harbor critical candidate genes regulating the pathogenesis of AML, leading to novel as well as well-known leukemia associated chromosomal aberrations.
Inherited thrombocytopenia results in low platelet counts and increased bleeding. Subsets of these patients have monoallelic germline mutations in ETV6 or RUNX1 and a heightened risk of developing hematologic malignancies. Utilizing CRISPR-Cas9, we compared the in vitro phenotype of hematopoietic progenitor cells and megakaryocytes derived from induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines harboring mutations in either ETV6 or RUNX1. Both mutant lines display phenotypes consistent with a platelet-bleeding disorder. Surprisingly, these cellular phenotypes were largely distinct. The ETV6-mutant iPSCs yield more hematopoietic progenitor cells and megakaryocytes, but the megakaryocytes are immature and less responsive to agonist stimulation. On the contrary, RUNX1-mutant iPSCs yield fewer hematopoietic progenitor cells and megakaryocytes, but the megakaryocytes are more responsive to agonist stimulation. However, both mutant iPSC lines display defects in proplatelet formation. Our work highlights that, while patients harboring germline ETV6 or RUNX1 mutations have similar clinical phenotypes, the molecular mechanisms may be distinct.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, China.
ASCL1 is a neuroendocrine lineage-specific oncogenic driver of small cell lung cancer (SCLC), highly expressed in a significant fraction of tumors. However, ∼25% of human SCLC are ASCL1-low and associated with low neuroendocrine fate and high MYC expression. Using genetically engineered mouse models (GEMMs), we show that alterations in Rb1/Trp53/Myc in the mouse lung induce an ASCL1+ state of SCLC in multiple cells of origin. Genetic depletion of ASCL1 in MYC-driven SCLC dramatically inhibits tumor initiation and progression to the NEUROD1+ subtype of SCLC. Surprisingly, ASCL1 loss promotes a SOX9+ mesenchymal/neural crest stem-like state and the emergence of osteosarcoma and chondroid tumors, whose propensity is impacted by cell of origin. ASCL1 is critical for expression of key lineage-related transcription factors NKX2-1, FOXA2, and INSM1 and represses genes involved in the Hippo/Wnt/Notch developmental pathways in vivo. Importantly, ASCL1 represses a SOX9/RUNX1/RUNX2 program in vivo and SOX9 expression in human SCLC cells, suggesting a conserved function for ASCL1. Together, in a MYC-driven SCLC model, ASCL1 promotes neuroendocrine fate and represses the emergence of a SOX9+ nonendodermal stem-like fate that resembles neural crest.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1289-1291.
B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is the most common form of childhood cancer. Chemotherapy is associated with life-long health sequelae and fails in ∼20% of cases. Thus, prevention of leukemia would be preferable to treatment. Childhood leukemia frequently starts before birth, during fetal hematopoiesis. A first genetic hit (eg, the ETV6-RUNX1 gene fusion) leads to the expansion of preleukemic B-cell clones, which are detectable in healthy newborn cord blood (up to 5%). These preleukemic clones give rise to clinically overt leukemia in only ∼0.2% of carriers. Experimental evidence suggests that a major driver of conversion from the preleukemic to the leukemic state is exposure to immune challenges. Novel insights have shed light on immune host responses and how they shape the complex interplay between (1) inherited or acquired genetic predispositions, (2) exposure to infection, and (3) abnormal cytokine release from immunologically untrained cells. Here, we integrate the recently emerging concept of "trained immunity" into existing models of childhood BCP-ALL and suggest future avenues toward leukemia prevention.
Experimental evidence from the etiology of cancer studies suggests that a correlation between Bisphenol-A (BPA) exposure and alterations in hematopoiesis leads to blood cancer. In our study zebrafish were used to assess the lethality, developmental effect, embryonic apoptosis and changes in transcription factor of hematopoiesis through EGFR/ERK signaling pathways in response to BPA. The in silico interaction of EGFR and BPA was analysed by molecular dynamic simulation. According to our results, BPA induced a significant lethal effect in hatching retardation, reduction in heart rate and teratogenic effects on zebrafish embryos and larvae at three different concentrations 100, 500 and 2500 μg/L. The mortality of adult zebrafish exposed to the acute toxicity of BPA from 5 to 30 mg/L concentrations was determined for 96 h. The peripheral blood cells and vital organs such as kidney, liver and spleen from BPA exposed fish showed predominantly abnormal myeloid blast cells along with severe morphological changes in erythrocytes at sublethal concentration 245 μg/L. The BPA showed the highest binding affinity to zebrafish EGFR with a docking score of -7.5 kcal/mol with an RMSD of 3.0 nm during MD simulation. We found that EGFR/ERK overexpression leads to induce hematopoietic cell proliferation and impaired differentiation, which enhances the myeloid repopulating activity and the accumulation of immature myeloblast cells. BPA also caused a corresponding increase in expression of hematopoietic transcription factor c-MYB and RUNX-1 leading to polychromasia, poikilocytosis, acanthocytes and anisocytosis and promoted myeloblastosis by inhibiting GATA-1 expression. These morphological changes often resulted in the prior condition of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Comprehensively, our data suggest that BPA can trigger the malignancy of AML cells by alteration of respective hematopoietic transcription factors via EGFR/ERK signaling in the zebrafish model.
RESEARCH PURPOSE: The sinus node (SN) is the heart's primary pacemaker. Key ion channels (mainly the funny channel, HCN4) and Ca2+-handling proteins in the SN are responsible for its function. Transcription factors (TFs) regulate gene expression through inhibition or activation and microRNAs (miRs) do this through inhibition. There is high expression of macrophages and mast cells within the SN connective tissue. 'Novel'/unexplored TFs and miRs in the regulation of ion channels and immune cells in the SN are not well understood. Using RNAseq and bioinformatics, the expression profile and predicted interaction of key TFs and cell markers with key miRs in the adult human SN vs. right atrial tissue (RA) were determined.PRINCIPAL RESULTS: 68 and 60 TFs significantly more or less expressed in the SN vs. RA respectively. Among those more expressed were ISL1 and TBX3 (involved in embryonic development of the SN) and 'novel' RUNX1-2, CEBPA, GLI1-2 and SOX2. These TFs were predicted to regulate HCN4 expression in the SN. Markers for different cells: fibroblasts (COL1A1), fat (FABP4), macrophages (CSF1R and CD209), natural killer (GZMA) and mast (TPSAB1) were significantly more expressed in the SN vs. RA. Interestingly, RUNX1-3, CEBPA and GLI1 also regulate expression of these cells. MiR-486-3p inhibits HCN4 and markers involved in immune response.MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, RUNX1-2, CSF1R, TPSAB1, COL1A1 and HCN4 are highly expressed in the SN but not miR-486-3p. Their complex interactions can be used to treat SN dysfunction such as bradycardia. Interestingly, another research group recently reported miR-486-3p is upregulated in blood samples from severe COVID-19 patients who suffer from bradycardia.
To explore features and impacts on the prognosis of common gene mutations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), we assessed mutation status as well as variant allele frequency (VAF) of 24 genes in 81 AML patients by next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology. Eighty-six percentages of patients showed at least one mutation. Mutation in BCOR was associated with lower complete remission (CR) rate, whereas double mutation in CEBPA was associated with a favorable odds ratio for CR achievement. TP53 mutation was associated with inferior overall survival (OS) in univariate analysis. Multivariate analysis confirmed the negative effect of adverse cytogenetic abnormalities on survival. Mutation in RUNX1 and ZRSR2 had negative impacts on OS in patients with wild-type TP53. VAF of SRSF2 mutation was observed negatively correlated with OS. In conclusion, our study suggested that mutations in BCOR and spliceosomes might predict worse outcomes, and VAF of gene mutations may play a crucial role in outcomes of AML patients.
Advances in genomic technologies and an increased understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of cancer have resulted in development of new effective, mutation-targeted therapies. In turn, these informed the development of Master Trial designs to test these therapies. The Beat Acute Myeloid Leukemia (BAML) Master Trial (Sponsor: The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society) tests several targeted therapies in patients aged ≥ 60 years with AML based on genomic profiling obtained within 7 days of study enrollment. We hypothesized that integrating operational strategies with new electronic technologies (e-technologies) might streamline the conduct and management of this Master Trial. BAML's 5 core operational strategies revolve around the guiding principle of "patients first." The e-technology platforms employed in BAML include: Clinical Oversight Platform: a central collaborative tool; e-Protocol/e-Source Upload/Electronic Data Capture Platform: digitizes the protocol, allows remote data monitoring, and collects/exports data in Study Data Tabulation Model format; and Data Review Platform: ingests data from different sources for clinical response and safety data reviews. The operational approaches, e-technologies and sponsor/contract research organization's (CRO) expertise together allow: the complexity and size of the BAML Master Trial to be better managed; near real-time study data oversight; better collaboration, communication and training; improved data collection, enhanced transmission and accessibility; data integration, review and generation of reports; while maintaining data privacy, and compliance. Initial e-technology challenges were overcome through training, learning, discipline and adjustment. In conclusion, to successfully manage Master Trials, significant time should be spent re-evaluating, improving and developing new operational approaches.Clinical Trial Registration: Clinical Trials.gov Identifier: NCT03013998. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03013998 .
Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) have been shown to have an ability to form a large number of functional endothelial cells in vitro, but generating organ-specific endothelial cells remains a challenge. Sonic hedgehog (SHH) pathway is one of the crucial developmental pathways that control differentiation of many embryonic cell types such as neuroectodermal, primitive gut tube and developing limb buds; SHH pathway is important for functioning of adult cell of skin, bone, liver as well as it regulates haematopoiesis. Misregulation of SHH pathway leads to cancers such as hepatic, pancreatic, basal cell carcinoma, medulloblastoma, etc. However, its role in differentiation of human ESCs into endothelial cells has not been completely elucidated. Here, we examined the role of SHH signalling pathway in endothelial differentiation of hESCs by growing them in the presence of an SHH agonist (purmorphamine) and an SHH antagonist (SANT-1) for a period of 6 days. Interestingly, we found that activation of SHH pathway led to a higher expression of set of transcription factors such as BRACHYURY, GATA2 and RUNX1, thus favouring hemogenic endothelium; whereas inhibition of SHH pathway led to a reduced expression of set of markers such as RUNX1 and BRACHURY, and an increased expression of set of markers - NFATC1, c-KIT, GATA4, CD31 & CD34, thus favouring endocardiogenic endothelium. The results of this study have revealed the previously unreported deterministic role of SHH pathway in specification of endothelial cells differentiated from human ESCs into hemogenic vs. endocardiogenic lineage; this finding could have major implications for clinical applications.
Blast crisis (BC) predicts dismal outcomes in patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia (CML). Although additional genetic alterations play a central role in BC, the landscape and prognostic impact of these alterations remain elusive. Here, we comprehensively investigate genetic abnormalities in 136 BC and 148 chronic phase (CP) samples obtained from 216 CML patients using exome and targeted sequencing. One or more genetic abnormalities are found in 126 (92.6%) out of the 136 BC patients, including the RUNX1-ETS2 fusion and NBEAL2 mutations. The number of genetic alterations increase during the transition from CP to BC, which is markedly suppressed by tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). The lineage of the BC and prior use of TKIs correlate with distinct molecular profiles. Notably, genetic alterations, rather than clinical variables, contribute to a better prediction of BC prognosis. In conclusion, genetic abnormalities can help predict clinical outcomes and can guide clinical decisions in CML.
B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) can be classified into subtypes according to the genetic aberrations they display. For instance, the translocation t(12;21)(p13;q22), representing the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion gene (ER), is present in a quarter of BCP-ALL cases. However, around 10% of the cases lack classifying chromosomal abnormalities (B-other). In pediatric ER BCP-ALL, rearrangement mediated by RAG (recombination-activating genes) has been proposed as the predominant driver of oncogenic rearrangement. Herein we analyzed almost 1600 pediatric BCP-ALL samples to determine which subtypes express RAG. We demonstrate that RAG1 mRNA levels are especially high in the ETV6-RUNX1 (ER) subtype and in a subset of B-other samples. We also define 31 genes that are co-expressed with RAG1 (RAG1-signature) in the ER subtype, a signature that also identifies this subset of B-other samples. Moreover, this subset also shares leukemia and pro-B gene expression signatures as well as high levels of the ETV6 target genes (BIRC7, WBP1L, CLIC5, ANGPTL2) with the ER subtype, indicating that these B-other cases are the recently identified ER-like subtype. We validated our results in a cohort where ER-like has been defined, which confirmed expression of the RAG1-signature in this recently described subtype. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the RAG1-signature identifies the ER-like subtype. As there are no definitive genetic markers to identify this novel subtype, the RAG1-signature represents a means to screen for this leukemia in children.
B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is the most common childhood cancer. As predicted by its prenatal origin, infant B-ALL (iB-ALL) shows an exceptionally silent DNA mutational landscape, suggesting that alternative epigenetic mechanisms may substantially contribute to its leukemogenesis. Here, we have integrated genome-wide DNA methylome and transcriptome data from 69 patients with de novo MLL-rearranged leukemia (MLLr) and non-MLLr iB-ALL leukemia uniformly treated according to the Interfant-99/06 protocol. iB-ALL methylome signatures display a plethora of common and specific alterations associated with chromatin states related to enhancer and transcriptional control in normal hematopoietic cells. DNA methylation, gene expression, and gene coexpression network analyses segregated MLLr away from non-MLLr iB-ALL and identified a coordinated and enriched expression of the AP-1 complex members FOS and JUN and RUNX factors in MLLr iB-ALL, consistent with the significant enrichment of hypomethylated CpGs in these genes. Integrative methylome-transcriptome analysis identified consistent cancer cell vulnerabilities, revealed a robust iB-ALL-specific gene expression-correlating dmCpG signature, and confirmed an epigenetic control of AP-1 and RUNX members in reshaping the molecular network of MLLr iB-ALL. Finally, pharmacological inhibition or functional ablation of AP-1 dramatically impaired MLLr-leukemic growth in vitro and in vivo using MLLr-iB-ALL patient-derived xenografts, providing rationale for new therapeutic avenues in MLLr-iB-ALL.
Author information:(1)Pediatric Blood Disease Center, State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Blood Diseases, Institute of Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology, Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (Deemed to University), MAHARASHTRA, INDIA.
Allosteric inhibitors of mutant IDH1 or IDH2 induce terminal differentiation of the mutant leukemic blasts and provide durable clinical responses in approximately 40% of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with the mutations. However, primary resistance and acquired resistance to the drugs are major clinical issues. To understand the molecular underpinnings of clinical resistance to IDH inhibitors (IDHi), we perform multipronged genomic analyses (DNA sequencing, RNA sequencing and cytosine methylation profiling) in longitudinally collected specimens from 60 IDH1- or IDH2-mutant AML patients treated with the inhibitors. The analysis reveals that leukemia stemness is a major driver of primary resistance to IDHi, whereas selection of mutations in RUNX1/CEBPA or RAS-RTK pathway genes is the main driver of acquired resistance to IDHi, along with BCOR, homologous IDH gene, and TET2. These data suggest that targeting stemness and certain high-risk co-occurring mutations may overcome resistance to IDHi in AML.
OBJECTIVES: The outcome of elderly acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients is poor, which was traditionally attributed to patient- and leukemia-related factors. However, studies about the genetic features of these elderly patients have not been integrated and the genetic mechanism of their poor outcome is less known.METHODS: Here, we used next generation sequencing (NGS) to identify the genetic features of elderly AML patients and confirmed the efficacy of chemotherapy based on molecular aberrations. Mutations in 111 genes relevant to hematological malignancy was analysed by virtue of NGS and the genetic differences were compared between elderly (n=52) and young (n=161) AML patients. Furthermore, the outcome of decitabine-based chemotherapy was identified in elderly patients.RESULTS: Frequencies of adverse genetic alterations, such as RUNX1 and secondary-type mutations (ASXL1, STAG2 and spliceosome), were much higher in elderly patients, while the frequency of WT1 mutations was much lower. Moreover, epigenetic mutations such as DNMT3A, TET2, ASXL1 and IDH2, were also more common in elderly patients. Furthermore, there were 39 elderly patients receiving the decitabine-based chemotherapy, and the results showed that the overall response rate (ORR) and complete remission rate (CR) were 76.9% and 71.8%, respectively. The median overall survival (OS) for those older patients was 12 months, and the 2-year OS probability was 20.5%.DISCUSSION: Our study provides deep understanding into the molecular mechanisms of the poor outcome of elderly AML patients.CONCLUSION: Epigenetic mutations play an important role, and decitabine-based regimen can be used as alternative first-line chemotherapy for elderly patients.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Oct 14;138(15):1289-1291.
Definitive hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) derive from specialized regions of the endothelium known as the hemogenic endothelium (HE) during embryonic developmental processes. This knowledge opens up new possibilities for designing new strategies to obtain HSCs in vitro from pluripotent stem cells (PSCs). Previous advances in this field show that the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway plays a crucial role in PSC-derived HSC formation. In this work, lithium, a GSK3 inhibitor, is identified as an element capable of stabilizing β-catenin and inducing embryonic stem cells (ESCs) differentiation in hemangioblast-like cells, highly consistent with the role of Wnt agonists on ESC differentiation. ESCs treated with 10 mm lithium express CD31+, SCA-1+, Nkx2-5+, CD34+, and FLK1+ cells characteristic of the hemangioblast cells that precede HE development. However, 10 mm Li treated cells remain arrested in a hemangioblast-like phase, which switched into the expression of HE markers after stimulation with maturation medium. The ability of lithium-treated ESCs to further derive into HE is confirmed after defined maturation, resulting in a rapid increase in cells positive for the HE markers RUNX1 and SOX17. The results represent a novel strategy for generating HSC precursors in vitro as a multipotent source of stem cells for blood disease therapies.
Childhood leukemias are heterogeneous diseases with widely differing incident rates worldwide. As circulating tumors, childhood acute leukemias are uniquely accessible, and their natural history has been described in greater detail than for solid tumors. For several decades, it has been apparent that most cases of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) initiate in utero. Circumstantial evidence in support of this contention includes the young age of onset and high rate of concordance among identical twins. "Backtracking" of leukemic somatic mutations, particularly gene translocations, to cord blood and dried blood spots collected during the perinatal period has provided molecular proof of prenatal leukemogenesis. Detection of a patient's leukemia translocation in easily accessible birth samples, such as dried blood spots, is straightforward with the knowledge of their idiosyncratic breakpoints. However, to translate these findings into population-based screening and leukemia prevention requires novel methods able to detect translocations at all possible breakpoints when present in a low frequency of cells. Several studies have attempted to screen for leukemic translocations, mainly the common ETV6-RUNX1 translocation, in cord blood samples from healthy children. Most studies have reported finding translocations in healthy children, but estimates of prevalence have varied widely and greatly exceed the incidence of leukemia, leading to concerns that technical artifact or contamination produced an artificially inflated estimate of translocation prevalence at birth. New generation techniques that capture the presence of these translocations at birth have the potential to vastly increase our understanding of the epidemiology of acute leukemias. For instance, if leukemic translocations are present at birth in a far higher proportion of children than eventually develop acute leukemia, what are the exposures and somatic molecular events that lead to disease? And could children with translocations present at birth be targeted for prevention of disease? These questions must be answered before large-scale newborn screening for leukemia can occur as a public health initiative. Here, we review the literature regarding backtracking of acute leukemias and the prevalence of leukemic translocations at birth. We further suggest an agenda for epidemiologic research using new tools for population screening of leukemic translocations.
Author information:(1)Pathology and Tumor Biology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a debilitating syndrome with substantial morbidity and mortality that occurs in the aftermath of trauma. Symptoms of major depressive disorder (MDD) are also a frequent consequence of trauma exposure. Identifying novel risk markers in the immediate aftermath of trauma is a critical step for the identification of novel biological targets to understand mechanisms of pathophysiology and prevention, as well as the determination of patients most at risk who may benefit from immediate intervention. Our study utilizes a novel approach to computationally integrate blood-based transcriptomics, genomics, and interactomics to understand the development of risk vs. resilience in the months following trauma exposure. In a two-site longitudinal, observational prospective study, we assessed over 10,000 individuals and enrolled >700 subjects in the immediate aftermath of trauma (average 5.3 h post-trauma (range 0.5-12 h)) in the Grady Memorial Hospital (Atlanta) and Jackson Memorial Hospital (Miami) emergency departments. RNA expression data and 6-month follow-up data were available for 366 individuals, while genotype, transcriptome, and phenotype data were available for 297 patients. To maximize our power and understanding of genes and pathways that predict risk vs. resilience, we utilized a set-cover approach to capture fluctuations of gene expression of PTSD or depression-converting patients and non-converting trauma-exposed controls to find representative sets of disease-relevant dysregulated genes. We annotated such genes with their corresponding expression quantitative trait loci and applied a variant of a current flow algorithm to identify genes that potentially were causal for the observed dysregulation of disease genes involved in the development of depression and PTSD symptoms after trauma exposure. We obtained a final list of 11 driver causal genes related to MDD symptoms, 13 genes for PTSD symptoms, and 22 genes in PTSD and/or MDD. We observed that these individual or combined disorders shared ESR1, RUNX1, PPARA, and WWOX as driver causal genes, while other genes appeared to be causal driver in the PTSD only or MDD only cases. A number of these identified causal pathways have been previously implicated in the biology or genetics of PTSD and MDD, as well as in preclinical models of amygdala function and fear regulation. Our work provides a promising set of initial pathways that may underlie causal mechanisms in the development of PTSD or MDD in the aftermath of trauma.
The t(8;21) fusion product, AML1/ETO, and hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF1α) form a feed-forward transcription loop that cooperatively transactivates the DNA methyltransferase 3a gene promoter that leads to DNA hypermethylation and drives leukemia cell growth. Suppression of the RNA N6-methyladenosine (m6A)-reader enzyme YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 2 (YTHDF2) specifically compromises cancer stem cells in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) but promotes hematopoietic stem cell expansion without derailing normal hematopoiesis. However, the relevance of expression between AML1/ETO-HIF1α loop and YTHDF2, and its functional relationship with t(8;21) AML have not been documented. Here, we show that YTHDF2 is highly expressed in t(8;21) AML patients and associated with a higher risk of relapse and inferior relapse-free survival. Knockdown of YTHDF2 in leukemia cells causes an impaired cell proliferation rate in vitro and in mice. Mechanistically, HIF1α is able to bind to the hypoxia-response elements of the 5'-untranslated region of the YTHDF2 gene and promotes the transactivity of the YTHDF2 promoter. Knockdown and overexpression of either AML1/ETO or HIF1α resulted in decreased and increased YTHDF2 protein and mRNA expression in t(8;21) AML cells. In particular, knockdown of YTHDF2 resulted in increased global mRNA m6A levels in t(8;21) AML cells, accompanied by increased TNF receptor superfamily member 1b (TNFRSF1b) mRNA and protein expression levels. Last, we demonstrated that the m6A methylation and expression levels of the TNFRSF1b gene were both negatively correlated with HIF1α expression levels. In conclusion, YTHDF2 is a downstream target of the AML1/ETO-HIF1α loop and promotes cell proliferation probably by modulating the global m6A methylation in t(8;21) AML.
Advances in cancer genomics have revealed genomic classes of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) characterized by class-defining mutations, such as chimeric fusion genes or in genes such as NPM1, MLL, and CEBPA. These class-defining mutations frequently synergize with internal tandem duplications in FLT3 (FLT3-ITDs) to drive leukemogenesis. However, ∼20% of FLT3-ITD-positive AMLs bare no class-defining mutations, and mechanisms of leukemic transformation in these cases are unknown. To identify pathways that drive FLT3-ITD mutant AML in the absence of class-defining mutations, we performed an insertional mutagenesis (IM) screening in Flt3-ITD mice, using Sleeping Beauty transposons. All mice developed acute leukemia (predominantly AML) after a median of 73 days. Analysis of transposon insertions in 38 samples from Flt3-ITD/IM leukemic mice identified recurrent integrations at 22 loci, including Setbp1 (20/38), Ets1 (11/38), Ash1l (8/38), Notch1 (8/38), Erg (7/38), and Runx1 (5/38). Insertions at Setbp1 led exclusively to AML and activated a transcriptional program similar, but not identical, to those of NPM1-mutant and MLL-rearranged AMLs. Guide RNA targeting of Setbp1 was highly detrimental to Flt3ITD/+/Setbp1IM+, but not to Flt3ITD/+/Npm1cA/+, AMLs. Also, analysis of RNA-sequencing data from hundreds of human AMLs revealed that SETBP1 expression is significantly higher in FLT3-ITD AMLs lacking class-defining mutations. These findings propose that SETBP1 overexpression collaborates with FLT3-ITD to drive a subtype of human AML. To identify genetic vulnerabilities of these AMLs, we performed genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening in Flt3ITD/+/Setbp1IM+ AMLs and identified potential therapeutic targets, including Kdm1a, Brd3, Ezh2, and Hmgcr. Our study gives new insights into epigenetic pathways that can drive AMLs lacking class-defining mutations and proposes therapeutic approaches against such cases.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in most of hematological malignancies, especially in acute myeloid leukemia. In the present study, we aimed to identify the key genes and microRNAs based on acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1 mutation. The newly finding targeted genes and microRNA associated with RUNX1 may benefit to the clinical treatment in acute myeloid leukemia.MATERIAL/METHODS: The gene and miRNA expression data sets relating to RUNX1 mutation and wild-type adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. Differentially expressed miRNAs and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by edgeR of R platform. Gene ontology and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses were performed by Metascape and Gene set enrichment analysis. The protein-protein interaction network and miRNA-mRNA regulatory network were performed by Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes database and Cytoscape software.RESULTS: A total of 27 differentially expressed miRNAs (25 upregulated and 2 downregulated) and 561 DEGs (429 upregulated and 132 downregulated) were identified. Five miRNAs (miR-151b, miR-151a-5p, let-7a-2-3p, miR-363-3p, miR-20b-5p) had prognostic significance in AML. The gene ontology analysis showed that upregulated DEGs suggested significant enrichment in MHC class II protein complex, extracellular structure organization, blood vessel development, cell morphogenesis involved in differentiation, embryonic morphogenesis, regulation of cell adhesion, and so on. Similarly, the downregulated DEGs were mainly enriched in secretory granule lumen, extracellular structure organization. In the gene set enrichment analysis of Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways, the RUNX1 mutation was associated with adherent junction, WNT signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, pathways in cancer, cell adhesion molecules CAMs, MAPK signaling pathway. Eleven genes (PPBP, APP, CCR5, HLA-DRB1, GNAI1, APLNR, P2RY14, C3AR1, HTR1F, CXCL12, GNG11) were simultaneously identified by hub gene analysis and module analysis. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML, targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B. In addition, the RUNX1 mutation rates in patient were obviously correlated with age, white blood cell, FAB type, risk(cyto), and risk(molecular) (P < .05).CONCLUSION: Our findings have indicated that multiple genes and microRNAs may play a crucial role in RUNX1 mutation AML. MicroRNA-363-3p may promote the development of RUNX1 mutation AML by targeting SPRYD4 and FNDC3B.
CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: RUNX1 familial platelet disorder with associated myeloid malignancies (RUNX1-FPDMM) is characterized by prolonged bleeding and/or easy bruising and an increased risk of developing a hematologic malignancy. RUNX1-FPDMM is characterized by thrombocytopenia with normal platelet size; bleeding is often greater than expected due to qualitative platelet dysfunction. Myeloid malignancies are the most common, including acute myelogenous leukemia (and myelodysplastic syndrome. T- and B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemias and lymphomas have also been reported, as well as skin manifestations (e.g., eczema, psoriasis).DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of RUNX1-FPDMM is established in a proband with suggestive findings and a heterozygous germline pathogenic variant in RUNX1 identified by molecular genetic testing.MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Use of clotting promotors (e.g., desmopressin, epsilon aminocaproic acid, tranexamic acid) in instances of surgeries, injuries, or dental treatments; platelet transfusions may be used for severe bleeding or procedures with a high bleeding risk. Allogenic stem cell transplantation may be considered in individuals with early signs of malignancy and hematopoietic stem cell transplant may be used to treat myelodysplasia; however, recommendations regarding the indications and timing of stem cell transplant can vary. Emollients and topical steroids as needed for eczema; consider providing a medical letter for the school explaining easy bruising; consider use of a medical alert bracelet. Surveillance: Clinical examination for signs/symptoms of neoplasm (e.g., constitutional symptoms such as fatigue, unexplained fever, unexplained weight loss, shortness of breath) every six to 12 months. Complete blood count with differential every three to four months; bone marrow examination if constitutional symptoms and/or abnormalities on complete blood count are identified; skin exam as needed. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Medications that affect platelet function (e.g., NSAIDs and antiplatelet agents), activities with a high risk of trauma (e.g., high-risk contact sports), unnecessary radiation, and smoking. Evaluation of relatives at risk: It is appropriate to clarify the genetic status of apparently asymptomatic at-risk relatives of an affected individual in order to identify as early as possible those who would benefit from surveillance for malignancy and more targeted medical management.GENETIC COUNSELING: RUNX1-FPDMM is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. Most individuals diagnosed with RUNX1-FPDMM inherited the causative pathogenic variant from a parent who may or may not have recognized manifestations of the disorder. If a parent of the proband is affected and/or is known to have the pathogenic variant identified in the proband, the risk to sibs of inheriting the pathogenic variant is 50%. If the RUNX1 pathogenic variant identified in the proband is not detected in parental DNA, the recurrence risk to sibs is slightly greater than that of the general population because of the possibility either of a false negative result in a parent (due to preferential loss of the chromosome with the RUNX1 pathogenic variant), or of parental germline mosaicism. Once the RUNX1 pathogenic variant has been identified in an affected family member, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.
Intramuscular fatty deposits, which are seen in muscular dystrophies and with aging, negatively affect muscle function. The cells of origin of adipocytes constituting these fatty deposits are mesenchymal stromal cells, fibroadipogenic progenitors (FAPs). We uncover a molecular fate switch, involving miR-206 and the transcription factor Runx1, that controls FAP differentiation to adipocytes. Mice deficient in miR-206 exhibit increased adipogenesis following muscle injury. Adipogenic differentiation of FAPs is abrogated by miR-206 mimics. Using a labeled microRNA (miRNA) pull-down and sequencing (LAMP-seq), we identified Runx1 as a miR-206 target, with miR-206 repressing Runx1 translation. In the absence of miR-206 in FAPs, Runx1 occupancy near transcriptional start sites of adipogenic genes and expression of these genes increase. We demonstrate that miR-206 mimicry in vivo limits intramuscular fatty infiltration. Our results provide insight into the underlying molecular mechanisms of FAP fate determination and formation of harmful fatty deposits in skeletal muscle.
The CBFB gene is frequently mutated in several types of solid tumors. Emerging evidence suggests that CBFB is a tumor suppressor in breast cancer. However, our understanding of the tumor suppressive function of CBFB remains incomplete. Here, we analyze genetic interactions between mutations of CBFB and other highly mutated genes in human breast cancer datasets and find that CBFB and TP53 mutations are mutually exclusive, suggesting a functional association between CBFB and p53. Integrated genomic studies reveal that TAp73 is a common transcriptional target of CBFB and p53. CBFB cooperates with p53 to maintain TAp73 expression, as either CBFB or p53 loss leads to TAp73 depletion. TAp73 re-expression abrogates the tumorigenic effect of CBFB deletion. Although TAp73 loss alone is insufficient for tumorigenesis, it enhances the tumorigenic effect of NOTCH3 overexpression, a downstream event of CBFB loss. Immunohistochemistry shows that p73 loss is coupled with higher proliferation in xenografts. Moreover, TAp73 loss-of-expression is a frequent event in human breast cancer tumors and cell lines. Together, our results significantly advance our understanding of the tumor suppressive functions of CBFB and reveal a mechanism underlying the communication between the two tumor suppressors CBFB and p53.
DOI: 10.1111/ijlh.13558PMCID: PMC9292886PMID: 33943002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
Recent evidences indicated that miRNAs played core role in the progression of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC). However, its molecular mechanism in ccRCC is still remained unclear. The study was designed to identify the role and regulatory mechanism of miR-582-5p in ccRCC. In this study, the low expression level of miR-582-5p were detected by qRT-PCR in ccRCC patient tumor samples and ccRCC cell lines, respectively. The expression level of miR-582-5p was associated with tumor stage and metastasis. In vivo and in vitro experiments found miR-582-5p inhibit tumor growth via suppressing COL5A1 expression. Additionally, RUNX1 was identified as the negative regulator of miR-582-5p through database prediction and chromatin immunoprecipitation. Finally, the negative relation of RUNX1 and miR-582-5p was verified through rescue experiment both in vitro and in vivo. In summary, miR-582-5p, which was regulated by RUNX1, inhibited tumor growth and invasion by targeting COL5A1, indicating that miR-582-5p may act as a biomarker and that the RUNX1/miR-582-5p/COL5A1 axis could be a potential therapeutic target for ccRCC.
First report of t(8;21)(q22;q22) in a patient with CLL. RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion gene resulting from the translocation may have played a role in the prolymphocytic transformation.
Liver fibrosis (LF) is a common pathological process with high morbidity and mortality. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is a transcription factor that could cause nephropathy and renal fibrosis, but its role in LF is unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the role RUNX1 in LF. Briefly, hepatic fibrosis was detected by Sirius Red staining. Transcript levels were quantified by qPCR, and proteins were assessed by western blotting or immunofluorescence. Cell viability and cell migration were measured by CCK8 assays and wound healing assays, respectively. The binding of RUNX1 and ubiquitin-specific protease 9X (USP9X) promoter was validated by ChIP assays and luciferase report assays, while the binding of USP9X and SMAD1 was confirmed by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP). Our studies found that the expression of RUNX1 was upregulated in LF mice, and RUNX1 knockdown alleviated CCl4-induced LF. RUNX1 silencing reduced the viability and migration of HSCs. Besides, RUNX1, as a transcription factor, bound to the promoter of USP9X and regulated the expression of USP9X. USP9X is a deubiquitination enzyme and was found to be up-regulated in LF mice. USP9X silencing reduced the viability and migration of HSCs, thereby inhibiting LF. Further studies showed that USP9X could stabilize downstream Smad1 expression. Furthermore, we also found that RUNX1 regulated the expression of SMAD1 by transcriptionally activating the expression of USP9X, thereby regulating the activation of hepatic stellate cells and liver fibrosis.
INTRODUCTION: Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) accounts for 2-3% of all tumors being the most frequent solid lesion in the kidney.OBJECTIVE: To determine what genetic alterations and immunohistochemical (IHC) of clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC) are associated with prognosis and tumor aggressiveness.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Experimental analytical study with 57 patients who underwent radical and partial nephrectomy between 2005 and 2011, all with diagnosis of ccRCC and minimum post-operative follow-up of 36 months. The pathological study included IHC determination of biomarkers associated (CAIX, CAM 5.2, CD10, c-erbB-2, EGFR, HIF-1a, Ki67, MDM2, PAX-2 y 8, p53, survivin and VEGFR 1 and 2). Genetic analysis was carried out using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). Clinical data were collected and summarized using an access-type database, adding genetic analysis and IHC data of each patient's tumor sample. IHC statistical analysis included Chi-square, Kruskal-Wallis and multivariate analysis. The genetic analysis was performed using multivariate logistic regression (normal/deletion-duplication). Significance level p<0.05.RESULTS: Pathologic stage was: pT1 (61.8%), pT2 (32.7%); pT3-T4 (5.4%); 16.3% were pN+ and 19.3% M1. 23.6% recurred being predominantly to distance in 83.3%. 27.3% of patients died (73.3% ccCCR). CAIX (Carbonic anhydrase IX) and tumor size were associated with worse Fuhrman grade (p = 0.035; p = 0.001 respectively). Deletion-duplication of genes increased the likelihood: of death (APC, Bcl-2 and CDKN2A by 11, 7 and 4 respectively and SMAD4 reduced the probability by 88%); tumor recurrence (CDKN2A by fifteen fold and VHL reduced the probability by 87%); pT greater than 2 (CCND2, MDM2 and WT1 multiplied by 6, 7 and 9); risk of N+ (CDK4 and EBF1 by 13); distant metastases (BRCA2 and DLEU1 by 5); Fuhrman grade ≥3 (BRCA1, BRCA2 and p53 by 40, 75 and 34 respectively, while that FHIT reduced by 96%). Deletion-duplication of CDK4 and DCC increased survival by a factor of 13 and 16, while that DLEU1 and RUNX1 decreased survival time by 80%.CONCLUSION: CAIX and tumor size are associated with increased aggressiveness. The mutations to level 5q, 9p, 11p, 12, 13q, 17, 18q and 21q are associated with more aggressive tumors and with worse survival rate.
As more clinically-relevant genomic features of myeloid malignancies are revealed, it has become clear that targeted clinical genetic testing is inadequate for risk stratification. Here, we develop and validate a clinical transcriptome-based assay for stratification of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Comparison of ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-Seq) to whole genome and exome sequencing reveals that a standalone RNA-Seq assay offers the greatest diagnostic return, enabling identification of expressed gene fusions, single nucleotide and short insertion/deletion variants, and whole-transcriptome expression information. Expression data from 154 AML patients are used to develop a novel AML prognostic score, which is strongly associated with patient outcomes across 620 patients from three independent cohorts, and 42 patients from a prospective cohort. When combined with molecular risk guidelines, the risk score allows for the re-stratification of 22.1 to 25.3% of AML patients from three independent cohorts into correct risk groups. Within the adverse-risk subgroup, we identify a subset of patients characterized by dysregulated integrin signaling and RUNX1 or TP53 mutation. We show that these patients may benefit from therapy with inhibitors of focal adhesion kinase, encoded by PTK2, demonstrating additional utility of transcriptome-based testing for therapy selection in myeloid malignancy.
The occurrence of gene mutation is a major contributor to the initiation and propagation of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Accumulating evidence suggests that genes encoding cohesin subunits have a high prevalence of mutations in AML, especially in the t(8;21) subtype. Therefore, it is important to understand how cohesin mutations contribute to leukemogenesis. However, the fundamental understanding of cohesin mutation in clonal expansion and myeloid transformation in hematopoietic cells remains ambiguous. Previous studies briefly introduced the cohesin mutation in AML; however, an in-depth summary of mutations in AML was not provided, and the correlation between cohesin and AML1-ETO in t (8;21) AML was also not analyzed. By summarizing the major findings regarding the cohesin mutation in AML, this review aims to define the characteristics of the cohesin complex mutation, identify its relationships with co-occurring gene mutations, assess its roles in clonal evolution, and discuss its potential for the prognosis of AML. In particular, we focus on the function of cohesin mutations in RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by recurrent genetic events. The BCL6 corepressor (BCOR) and its homolog, the BCL6 corepressor-like 1 (BCORL1), have been reported to be rare but recurrent mutations in AML. Previously, smaller studies have reported conflicting results regarding impacts on outcomes. Here, we retrospectively analyzed a large cohort of 1529 patients with newly diagnosed and intensively treated AML. BCOR and BCORL1 mutations were found in 71 (4.6%) and 53 patients (3.5%), respectively. Frequently co-mutated genes were DNTM3A, TET2 and RUNX1. Mutated BCORL1 and loss-of-function mutations of BCOR were significantly more common in the ELN2017 intermediate-risk group. Patients harboring loss-of-function mutations of BCOR had a significantly reduced median event-free survival (HR = 1.464 (95%-Confidence Interval (CI): 1.005-2.134), p = 0.047), relapse-free survival (HR = 1.904 (95%-CI: 1.163-3.117), p = 0.01), and trend for reduced overall survival (HR = 1.495 (95%-CI: 0.990-2.258), p = 0.056) in multivariable analysis. Our study establishes a novel role for loss-of-function mutations of BCOR regarding risk stratification in AML, which may influence treatment allocation.
Deregulation of the EVI1 proto-oncogene by the GATA2 distal hematopoietic enhancer (G2DHE) is a key event in high-risk acute myeloid leukemia carrying 3q21q26 aberrations (3q-AML). Upon chromosomal rearrangement, G2DHE acquires characteristics of a super-enhancer and causes overexpression of EVI1 at 3q26.2. However, the transcription factor (TF) complex of G2DHE remains poorly characterized. The aim of this study was to unravel key components of G2DHE-bound TFs involved in the deregulation of EVI1. We have identified several CEBPA and RUNX1 binding sites to be enriched and critical for G2DHE function in 3q-AML cells. Using ChIP-SICAP (ChIP followed by selective isolation of chromatin-associated proteins), a panel of chromatin interactors of RUNX1 and CEBPA were detected in 3q-AML, including PARP1 and IKZF1. PARP1 inhibition (PARPi) caused a reduction of EVI1 expression and a decrease in EVI1-G2DHE interaction frequency, highlighting the involvement of PARP1 in oncogenic super-enhancer formation. Furthermore, 3q-AML cells were highly sensitive to PARPi and displayed morphological changes with higher rates of differentiation and apoptosis as well as depletion of CD34 + cells. In summary, integrative analysis of the 3q-AML super-enhancer complex identified CEBPA and RUNX1 associated proteins and nominated PARP1 as a potential new therapeutic target in EVI1 + 3q-AML.
Introduction: RUNX1 is an essential transcription factor for normal and malignant hematopoiesis. RUNX1 forms a heterodimeric complex with CBFB. Germline mutations and somatic alterations (i.e. translocations, mutations and abnormal expression) are frequently associated with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with RUNX1 mutations conferring unfavorable prognosis. Therefore, RUNX1 constitutes a potential innovative and interesting therapeutic target. In this review, we discuss recent therapeutic advances of RUNX1 targeting in AML.Areas covered: Firstly, we cover the clinical basis for RUNX1 targeting. We have subdivided recent therapeutic approaches either by common biochemical pathways or by similar pharmacological targets. Genome editing of RUNX1 induces anti-leukemic effects; however, off-target events prohibit clinical use. Several molecules inhibit the interaction between RUNX1/CBFB and control AML development and progression. BET protein antagonists target RUNX1 (i.e. specific BET inhibitors, BRD4 shRNRA, proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTAC) or expression-mimickers). All these molecules improve survival in mutant RUNX1 AML preclinical models.Expert opinion: Some of these novel molecules have shown encouraging anti-leukemic potency at the preclinical stage. A better understanding of RUNX1 function in AML development and progression and its key downstream pathways, may result in more precise and more efficient RUNX1 targeting therapies.
BACKGROUND: Obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus is a metabolic disorder ; however, the etiology of obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus remains largely unknown. There is an urgent need to further broaden the understanding of the molecular mechanism associated in obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus.METHODS: To screen the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) that might play essential roles in obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus, the publicly available expression profiling by high throughput sequencing data (GSE143319) was downloaded and screened for DEGs. Then, Gene Ontology (GO) and REACTOME pathway enrichment analysis were performed. The protein - protein interaction network, miRNA - target genes regulatory network and TF-target gene regulatory network were constructed and analyzed for identification of hub and target genes. The hub genes were validated by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and RT- PCR analysis. Finally, a molecular docking study was performed on over expressed proteins to predict the target small drug molecules.RESULTS: A total of 820 DEGs were identified between healthy obese and metabolically unhealthy obese, among 409 up regulated and 411 down regulated genes. The GO enrichment analysis results showed that these DEGs were significantly enriched in ion transmembrane transport, intrinsic component of plasma membrane, transferase activity, transferring phosphorus-containing groups, cell adhesion, integral component of plasma membrane and signaling receptor binding, whereas, the REACTOME pathway enrichment analysis results showed that these DEGs were significantly enriched in integration of energy metabolism and extracellular matrix organization. The hub genes CEBPD, TP73, ESR2, TAB1, MAP 3K5, FN1, UBD, RUNX1, PIK3R2 and TNF, which might play an essential role in obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus was further screened.CONCLUSIONS: The present study could deepen the understanding of the molecular mechanism of obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus, which could be useful in developing therapeutic targets for obesity associated type 2 diabetes mellitus.
The treatment of older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) using intensive chemotherapy is associated with treatment intolerance and poor survival. We evaluated two new lower-intensity regimens with clofarabine (n = 119) or cladribine (n = 129) combined with low-dose cytarabine (LDAC) alternating with decitabine. We reviewed response rates by subgroup and long term outcomes of 248 patients with newly diagnosed non core-binding-factor AML treated on two clinical trials investigating double nucleoside-analogue therapy (DNT) alternating with HMA from October, 2008 to April, 2018. Of 248 patients with a median age of 69 years (range, 49-85 years), 102 patients (41%) were ≥ 70 years, and 108 (44%) had adverse karyotype. Overall, 164 patients (66%) responded: 147 (59%) complete remission (CR) and 17 (7%) CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi). With a median follow up of 60 months, median relapse-free and overall survival (OS) were 10.8 and 12.5 months, respectively. The 2-year OS was 29%. Among patients with normal karyotype, the CR/CRi rate was 79% and the median OS 19.9 months. High response rates and OS were observed in patients with mutations in NPM1, FLT3, IDH2, and RUNX1. The 4- and 8-week mortality rates were 2% and 11%, respectively. The backbone of clofarabine or cladribine and LDAC alternating with decitabine was effective and safe for the treatment of older patients with newly diagnosed AML. Incorporating targeted therapies could extend the efficacy of this approach and provide more curative therapeutic options in this AML population.
Comment in    Blood. 2021 Sep 16;138(11):915-916.
Pulmonary fibrosis (PF) can arise from unknown causes, as in idiopathic PF, or as a consequence of infections, including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Current treatments for PF slow, but do not stop, disease progression. We report that treatment with a runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) inhibitor (Ro24-7429), previously found to be safe, although ineffective, as a Tat inhibitor in patients with HIV, robustly ameliorates lung fibrosis and inflammation in the bleomycin-induced PF mouse model. RUNX1 inhibition blunted fundamental mechanisms downstream pathologic mediators of fibrosis and inflammation, including transforming growth factor-β1 and tumor necrosis factor-α, in cultured lung epithelial cells, fibroblasts, and vascular endothelial cells, indicating pleiotropic effects. RUNX1 inhibition also reduced the expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 and FES Upstream Region (FURIN), host proteins critical for SARS-CoV-2 infection, in mice and in vitro. A subset of human lungs with SARS-CoV-2 infection overexpress RUNX1. These data suggest that RUNX1 inhibition via repurposing of Ro24-7429 may be beneficial for PF and to battle SARS-CoV-2, by reducing expression of viral mediators and by preventing respiratory complications.
Severe congenital neutropenia (CN) is a pre-leukemic bone marrow failure syndrome that can evolve to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Mutations in CSF3R and RUNX1 are frequently observed in CN patients, although how they drive the transition from CN to AML (CN/AML) is unclear. Here we establish a model of stepwise leukemogenesis in CN/AML using CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing of CN patient-derived iPSCs. We identified BAALC upregulation and resultant phosphorylation of MK2a as a key leukemogenic event. BAALC deletion or treatment with CMPD1, a selective inhibitor of MK2a phosphorylation, blocked proliferation and induced differentiation of primary CN/AML blasts and CN/AML iPSC-derived hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) without affecting healthy donor or CN iPSC-derived HSPCs. Beyond detailing a useful method for future investigation of stepwise leukemogenesis, this study suggests that targeting BAALC and/or MK2a phosphorylation may prevent leukemogenic transformation or eliminate AML blasts in CN/AML and RUNX1 mutant BAALC(hi) de novo AML.
The gene fusions BCR-ABL1, TCF3-PBX1, and ETV6-RUNX1 are recurrent in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and are found with low frequency in coexistence with CRLF2 (cytokine receptor-like factor 2) rearrangements and overexpression. There is limited information regarding the CRLF2 abnormalities and dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms associated with surrogate markers of Jak2, ABL, and Ras signaling pathways. To assess this, we evaluated 24 Mexican children with B-ALL positive for recurrent gene fusions at diagnosis. We found CRLF2 rearrangements and/or overexpression, dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms, and surrogate phosphorylated markers of signaling pathways coexisting with recurrent gene fusions. All the BCR-ABL1 patients expressed CRLF2 and were positive for pCrkl (ABL); most of them were also positive for pStat5 (Jak2/Stat5) and negative for pErk (Ras). TCF3-PBX1 patients with CRLF2 abnormalities were positive for pStat5, most of them were also positive for pCrkl, and two patients were also positive for pErk. One patient with ETV6-RUNX1 and intracellular CRLF2 protein expressed pCrkl. In some cases, the activated signaling pathways were reverted in vitro by specific inhibitors. We further analyzed a TCF3-PBX1 patient at relapse, identifying a clone with the recurrent gene fusion, P2RY8-CRLF2, rearrangement, and phosphorylation of the three surrogate markers that we studied. These results agree with the previous reports regarding resistance to treatment observed in patients with recurrent gene fusions and coexisting CRLF2 gene abnormalities. A marker phosphorylation signature was identified in BCR-ABL1 and TCF3-PBX1 patients. To obtain useful information for the assessment of treatment in B-ALL patients with recurrent gene fusions, we suggest that they should be evaluated at diagnosis for CRLF2 gene abnormalities and dominant-negative IKZF1 isoforms, in addition to the analyses of activation and inhibition of signaling pathways.
Children with Down syndrome (DS) are at an increased risk of developing transient abnormal myelopoiesis (TAM) and acute leukemia. Aberrant expression of CD56 has been observed on myeloid leukemic blasts in DS patients. In general, CD56 expression in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is considered a promoter of leukemogenesis. We did a retrospective flow cytometric study to investigate mature myelomonocytic cell CD56 expression patterns in TAM, non-TAM, and leukemia cases with DS. Flow cytometric analysis showed that granulocyte and monocyte aberrant/dysplastic CD56 expression is an inherent characteristic of most DS patients irrespective of the presence of TAM or leukemia. Increased CD56 expression in monocyte and granulocyte populations in DS could be multifactorial; greater expression of RUNX1 secondary to the gene dose effect of trisomy 21 along with the maturational state of the cells are the potential contributors. Unlike AML seen in non-DS patients, CD56 overexpression in DS AML cases does not appear to play a role in leukemogenesis.
Pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) can potentially occur after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) if recipient and donor ABO blood groups are mismatched, with the recipient having isoagglutinins against the donor blood group. Patient plasma cells that survive transplant conditioning produce anti-ABO isoagglutinins targeting donor erythroid precursors in the bone marrow and thus causing red cell aplasia. Therapeutic options include steroids, discontinuation of immunosuppression, plasmapheresis, donor lymphocyte infusion, rituximab, and bortezomib, all with limited benefit. Daratumumab utilized in the treatment of multiple myeloma is an anti-CD38 monoclonal antibody targeting plasma cells, which makes it a potentially efficient therapy for PRCA. The current case report presents a patient with post-allo-HSCT PRCA cured with daratumumab applied after failure of other therapies. Our findings demonstrate safety and high efficiency of daratumumab, suggesting its applicability as early treatment of post-allo-HSCT PRCA.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is caused by recurrent mutations in members of the gene regulatory and signaling machinery that control hematopoietic progenitor cell growth and differentiation. Here, we show that the transcription factor WT1 forms a major node in the rewired mutation-specific gene regulatory networks of multiple AML subtypes. WT1 is frequently either mutated or upregulated in AML, and its expression is predictive for relapse. The WT1 protein exists as multiple isoforms. For two main AML subtypes, we demonstrate that these isoforms exhibit differential patterns of binding and support contrasting biological activities, including enhanced proliferation. We also show that WT1 responds to oncogenic signaling and is part of a signaling-responsive transcription factor hub that controls AML growth. WT1 therefore plays a central and widespread role in AML biology.
Mutations of Nucleophosmin (NPM1) are the most common genetic abnormalities in adult acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), accounting for about 30% of cases. NPM1-mutated AML has been recognized as distinct entity in the 2017 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of lympho-haematopoietic neoplasms. WHO criteria allow recognition of this leukaemia entity and its distinction from AML with myelodysplasia-related changes, AML with BCR-ABL1 rearrangement and AML with RUNX1 mutations. Nevertheless, controversial issues include the percentage of blasts required for the diagnosis of NPM1-mutated AML and whether cases of NPM1-mutated myelodysplasia and chronic myelomonocytic leukaemia do exist. Evaluation of NPM1 and FLT3 status represents a major pillar of the European LeukemiaNet (ELN) genetic-based risk stratification model. Moreover, NPM1 mutations are particularly suitable for assessing measurable residual disease (MRD) since they are frequent, stable at relapse and do not drive clonal haematopoiesis. Ideally, combining monitoring of MRD with the ELN prognostication model can help to guide therapeutic decisions. Here, we provide examples of instructive cases of NPM1-mutated AML, in order to provide criteria for the appropriate diagnosis and therapy of this frequent leukaemia entity.
IL-33 is a chromatin-associated multifunctional cytokine implicated in the pathogenesis of atopic dermatitis (AD), an inflammatory skin disorder characterized by skin barrier dysfunction. The previous reports show that IL-33 is highly detected in the nucleus of epidermal keratinocytes in AD lesions compared with that in unaffected or normal skin. However, it is unclear whether intracellular IL-33 directly contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. T helper type 2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-13 that are elevated in AD lesions suppress keratinocyte differentiation to impair skin barrier function. We investigated whether intracellular IL-33 is involved in IL-4 and IL-13 function. In monolayer culture and living skin equivalent analyses, IL-4 and IL-13 increased the expression of full-length IL-33 in the nucleus of keratinocytes by activating the MAPK/extracellular signal‒regulated kinase kinase/extracellular signal‒regulated kinase signaling pathway, which is necessary for the inhibition of differentiation markers FLG, LOR, keratin 1, and keratin 10. The nuclear IL-33 functions as a transcription cofactor of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, increasing the binding of phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 to FLG promoter, thereby inhibiting its transcription, and it inhibits the expression of transcription factor RUNX1 by signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 and signal transducer and activator of transcription 6, thereby downregulating LOR, keratin 1, and keratin 10. Thus, the elevated nuclear IL-33 in the epidermis of AD lesions may be involved in the pathogenesis of AD by inhibiting keratinocyte differentiation and skin barrier function.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is a hematologic malignancy that overlaps with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and tends to transform into acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Among cases of CMML, > 90% have gene mutations, primarily involving TET2 (~ 60%), ASXL1 (~ 40%), SRSF2 (~ 50%), and the RAS pathways (~ 30%). These gene mutations are associated with both the clinical phenotypes and the prognosis of CMML, special CMML variants and pre-phases of CMML. Cytogenetic abnormalities and the size of genome are also associated with prognosis. Meanwhile, cases with ASXL1, DNMT3A, NRAS, SETBP1, CBL and RUNX1 mutations may have inferior prognoses, but only ASXL1 mutations were confirmed to be independent predictors of the patient outcome and were included in three prognostic models. Novel treatment targets related to the various gene mutations are emerging. Therefore, this review provides new insights to explore the correlations among gene mutations, clinical phenotypes, prognosis, and novel drugs in CMML.
BACKGROUND: Dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) figures prominently in the radio- sensitivity of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). MiR-129-5p can block the development of a variety of tumors. However, whether miR-129-5p modulates radio-sensitivity of NSCLC cells remains unknown.OBJECTIVE: This study was aimed to explore the role and the underlying mechanism of miR-129-5p in the radiosensitivity of NSCLC.METHODS: Radio-resistant NSCLC cell lines (A549-R and H1299-R) were constructed using A549 and H1299 cells. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was employed to quantify miR-129-5p, SRY-box transcription factor 4 (SOX4) mRNA, and RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) mRNA expression levels. Cell apoptosis and cell cycle were detected by flow cytometry. Cell counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay and colony formation experiments were used to measure cell proliferation. γ-H2AX was examined by Western blot to confirm DNA injury. Dual- luciferase reporter experiments were applied to analyze the interactions among miR-129-5p, RUNX1, and SOX4.RESULTS: In A549-R and H1299-R cells, compared with the wild-type cell lines, miR-129-5p expression was remarkably reduced while SOX4 and RUNX1 expressions were increased. The transfection of miR-129-5p into NSCLC cell lines markedly induced cell apoptosis, DNA injury, cell cycle arrest, and inhibited cell proliferation and colony formation. RUNX1 and SOX4 were validated as target genes of miR-129-5p, and the restoration of RUNX1 or SOX4 could counteract the influence of miR-129-5p on A549-R cells.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-129-5p sensitizes A549-R and H1299-R cells to radiation by targeting RUNX1 and SOX4.
Longitudinal molecular measurable residual disease (MRD) sampling after completion of therapy serves as a refined tool for identification of imminent relapse of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) among patients in long-term haematological complete remission. Tracking of increasing quantitative polymerase chain reaction MRD before cytomorphological reappearance of blasts may instigate individual management decisions and has paved the way for development of pre-emptive treatment strategies to substantially delay or perhaps even revert leukaemic regrowth. Traditionally, MRD monitoring is performed using repeated bone marrow aspirations, albeit the current European LeukemiaNet MRD recommendations acknowledge the use of peripheral blood as an alternative source for MRD assessment. Persistent MRD positivity in the bone marrow despite continuous morphological remission is frequent in both core binding factor leukaemias and nucleophosmin 1-mutated AML. In contrast, monthly assessment of MRD in peripheral blood superiorly separates patients with imminent haematological relapse from long-term remitters and may allow pre-emptive therapy of AML relapse.
Erratum in    Clin Epigenetics. 2021 Apr 28;13(1):94.
BACKGROUND: This study explored the expression and clinical significance of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), tumor necrosis factor α induced protein 8-like 2 (TIPE2), and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) in breast cancer tissue.METHODS: From October 2014 to October 2017, 68 breast cancer patients (68 breast cancer tissue specimens) who underwent a radical mastectomy in our hospital were set as the observation group and the corresponding normal tissue 3 cm away from the cancer tissue was selected as the control group. The expression levels of STAT3, TIPE2, and RUNX1 in the two groups were compared via immunohistochemical staining. Multiple logistic regression was then used to analyze the related risk factors affecting the 2-year prognosis of breast cancer patients. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was then plotted and the area under the ROC curve was calculated. The predictive values of STAT3, TIPE2, and RUNX1, and the predictive value of the three transcription factors combined on the 2-year prognostic survival of breast cancer patients were determined.RESULTS: (I) In the observation group, the positive expression of STAT3 and the negative expression of TIPE2 and RUNX1 were significantly higher than those in the control group (P<0.05). (II) Of the 68 patients, 51 survived within 2 years and 17 patients died. Positive STAT3 expression, negative TIPE2 expression, negative RUNX1 expression, poor histological differentiation, TNM stage III-IV, and distant metastasis were all identified as factors that can affect the 2-year prognosis of breast cancer patients (P<0.05). (III) The ROC curve analysis examining the 2-year prognostic survival of breast cancer patients showed that the area under the curve achieved the largest value when the predictive values of STAT3, TIPE2, RUNX1 were combined.CONCLUSIONS: The levels of STAT3, TIPE2, and RUNX1 expression in breast cancer tissues were significantly different from that in adjacent normal tissues. This suggested that the combined detection of STAT3, TIPE2, and RUNX1 may improve the rate of early breast cancer diagnosis. Furthermore, STAT3, TIPE2, and RUNX1 may be useful in evaluating the prognosis of the patients with breast cancer.
Transcription factors are the major agents that read the regulatory sequence information in the genome to initiate changes in expression of specific genes, both in development and in physiological activation responses. Their actions depend on site-specific DNA binding and are largely guided by their individual DNA target sequence specificities. However, their action is far more conditional in a real developmental context than would be expected for simple reading of local genomic DNA sequence, which is common to all cells in the organism. They are constrained by slow-changing chromatin states and by interactions with other transcription factors, which affect their occupancy patterns of potential sites across the genome. These mechanisms lead to emergent discontinuities in function even for transcription factors with minimally changing expression. This is well revealed by diverse lineages of blood cells developing throughout life from hematopoietic stem cells, which use overlapping combinations of transcription factors to drive strongly divergent gene regulation programs. Here, using development of T lymphocytes from hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cells as a focus, recent evidence is reviewed on how binding specificity and dynamics, transcription factor cooperativity, and chromatin state changes impact the effective regulatory functions of key transcription factors including PU.1, Runx1, Notch-RBPJ, and Bcl11b.
Human clinical trials suggest that inhibition of enzymes in the DNA base excision repair (BER) pathway, such as PARP1 and APE1, can be useful in anticancer strategies when combined with certain DNA-damaging agents or tumor-specific genetic deficiencies. There is also evidence suggesting that inhibition of the BER enzyme 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase-1 (OGG1), which initiates repair of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxo-dG) and 2,6-diamino-4-hydroxy-5-formamidopyrimidine (Fapy-dG), could be useful in treating certain cancers. Specifically, in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), both the RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion and the CBFB-MYH11 subtypes have lower levels of OGG1 expression, which correlate with increased therapeutic-induced cell cytotoxicity and good prognosis for improved, relapse-free survival compared with other AML patients. Here we present data demonstrating that AML cell lines deficient in OGG1 have enhanced sensitivity to cytarabine (cytosine arabinoside [Ara-C]) relative to OGG1-proficient cells. This enhanced cytotoxicity correlated with endogenous oxidatively-induced DNA damage and Ara-C-induced DNA strand breaks, with a large proportion of these breaks occurring at common fragile sites. This lethality was highly specific for Ara-C treatment of AML cells deficient in OGG1, with no other replication stress-inducing agents showing a correlation between cell killing and low OGG1 levels. The mechanism for this preferential toxicity was addressed using in vitro replication assays in which DNA polymerase δ was shown to insert Ara-C opposite 8-oxo-dG, resulting in termination of DNA synthesis. Overall, these data suggest that incorporation of Ara-C opposite unrepaired 8-oxo-dG may be the fundamental mechanism conferring selective toxicity and therapeutic effectiveness in OGG1-deficient AML cells.
Cabozantinib is an orally available, multi-target tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for the treatment of several solid tumours and known to inhibit KIT tyrosine kinase. In acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), aberrant KIT tyrosine kinase often coexists with t(8;21) to drive leukaemogenesis. Here we evaluated the potential therapeutic effect of cabozantinib on a selected AML subtype characterised by t(8;21) coupled with KIT mutation. Cabozantinib exerted substantial cytotoxicity in Kasumi-1 cells with an IC50 of 88.06 ± 4.32 nM, which was well within clinically achievable plasma levels. The suppression of KIT phosphorylation and its downstream signals, including AKT/mTOR, STAT3, and ERK1/2, was elicited by cabozantinib treatment and associated with subsequent alterations of cell cycle- and apoptosis-related molecules. Cabozantinib also disrupted the synthesis of an AML1-ETO fusion protein in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In a mouse xenograft model, cabozantinib suppressed tumourigenesis at 10 mg/kg and significantly prolonged survival of the mice. Further RNA-sequencing analysis revealed that mTOR-mediated signalling pathways were substantially inactivated by cabozantinib treatment, causing the downregulation of ribosome biogenesis and glycolysis, along with myeloid leukocyte activation. We suggest that cabozantinib may be effective in the treatment of AML with t(8;21) and KIT mutation. Relevant clinical trials are warranted.
The core binding factor composed of CBFβ and RUNX subunits plays a critical role in most hematopoietic lineages and is deregulated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The fusion oncogene CBFβ-SMMHC expressed in AML with the chromosome inversion inv(16)(p13q22) acts as a driver oncogene in hematopoietic stem cells and induces AML. This review focuses on novel insights regarding the molecular mechanisms involved in CBFβ-SMMHC-driven leukemogenesis and recent advances in therapeutic approaches to target CBFβ-SMMHC in inv(16) AML.
RUNX1 overlapping RNA (RUNXOR) is a long noncoding RNA and a key regulator of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) via targeting runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1). We and others have previously reported MDSC expansion and inhibition of host immune responses during viral infections; however, the mechanisms regulating MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions, especially the role of RUNXOR-RUNX1 in the regulation of MDSCs in people living with HIV (PLHIV), remain unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that RUNXOR and RUNX1 expressions are upregulated in MDSCs that expand and accumulate in human PBMCs derived from PLHIV. We found that the upregulation of RUNXOR and RUNX1 is associated with the expressions of several key immunosuppressive molecules, including arginase 1, inducible NO synthase, STAT3, IL-6, and reactive oxygen species. RUNXOR and RUNX1 could positively regulate each other's expression and control the expressions of these suppressive mediators. Specifically, silencing RUNXOR or RUNX1 expression in MDSCs from PLHIV attenuated MDSC expansion and immunosuppressive mediator expressions, whereas overexpressing RUNXOR in CD33+ myeloid precursors from healthy subjects promoted their differentiation into MDSCs and enhanced the expression of these mediators. Moreover, loss of RUNXOR-RUNX1 function in MDSCs improved IFN-γ production from cocultured autologous CD4 T cells derived from PLHIV. These results suggest that the RUNXOR-RUNX1 axis promotes the differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs via regulating multiple immunosuppressive signaling molecules and may represent a potential target for immunotherapy in conjunction with antiviral therapy in PLHIV.
Novel recurrent fusion gene types such as zinc finger protein 384 (ZNF384) fusions have been identified in B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) with the application of next-generation sequencing technologies. However, the comprehensive large-scale clinical cohort study for clarifying their prognostic significance remains scarce to date. A total of 242 consecutive adult Ph-negative BCP-ALL patients treated in our institute were retrospectively screened ZNF384 fusions at diagnosis by multiplex real time quantitative PCR. ZNF384 fusions were identified in 47 patients (19.4%) and all belonged to B-other ALL (having no high hyperdiploid karyotype, BCR-ABL1, TCF3-PBX1, ETV6-RUNX1, or MLL rearrangement). In the whole cohort, patients with ZNF384 fusions had significantly higher 3-year relapse-free-survival (RFS) and tended to have a higher 3-year overall survival (OS) than those with no ZNF384 fusions (80.1% vs. 52.5%, P = 0.013; 67.6% vs. 54.0%, P = 0.10). For patients receiving chemotherapy alone and received allogeneic-hematologic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) were censored at the time of transplantation, patients with ZNF384 fusions had both similar RFS and similar OS to B-other ALL patients with no ZNF384 fusions (RFS: P =0.94 and 0.30; OS: P =0.94 and 0.51). For patients receiving transplantation, those with ZNF384 fusions had significantly higher 3-year RFS than B-other ALL patients with no ZNF384 fusions and their OS were similar (P = 0.022 and 0.24). Only two of 31 patients with ZNF384 fusions and receiving allo-HSCT relapsed, individually occurred 66.8 and 69.8 months after transplantation. Therefore, ZNF384 fusion is common in adult BCP-ALL, which may define a new group from BCP-ALL containing no classical fusion transcript with better prognosis through receiving allo-HSCT.
Myeloid sarcoma, also known as chloroma or granulocytic sarcoma is an extramedullary disease process that typically presents in association with acute myeloid leukemia during initial presentation or at relapse. Often associated with cytogenetic mutations, including t(8;21)(q22;q22); RUNX1/RUNX1T1, and less frequently with inv(16)(p13.1q22) or t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB/MYH11, myeloid sarcoma is most commonly discovered in skin, soft tissue, bone, and connective tissue. In rare circumstances, myeloid sarcoma can present without any evidence of bone marrow or leukemic involvement. These cases of de novo myeloid sarcoma are rare, and are commonly misdiagnosed due to similarities with other entities. We report an unusual case of a primary de novo peritoneal myeloid sarcoma, in association with inv(16)(p13;q22) and clonal heterogeneity at different sites of involvement, that has responded well to AML induction therapy and consolidation treatment with gemtuzumab ozogamicin and high dose cytarabine. Cytogenetics, immunophenotyping, and chromosomal analysis, were each critical in establishing a proper diagnosis as well as helping to develop appropriate therapeutic strategies for this rare entity.
The oncofetal protein insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3) belongs to a family of RNA-binding proteins involved in localization, stability, and translational regulation of target RNAs. IGF2BP3 is used as a diagnostic and prognostic marker in several malignancies. Although the prognosis of pediatric B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) has improved, a subgroup of patients exhibits high-risk features and suffer from disease recurrence. We sought to identify additional biomarkers to improve diagnostics, and we assessed expression of IGF2BP3 in a population-based pediatric cohort of B-ALL using a tissue microarray platform. The majority of pediatric B-ALL cases were positive for IGF2BP3 immunohistochemistry and were associated with an increased proliferative phenotype and activated STAT5 signaling pathway. Two large gene expression data sets were probed for the expression of IGF2BP3-the highest levels were seen among the B-cell lymphomas of a germinal center origin and well-established (KMT2A-rearranged and ETV6-RUNX1) and novel subtypes of B-ALL (e.g., NUTM1 and ETV6-RUNX1-like). A high mRNA for IGF2BP3 was associated with a proliferative "metagene" signature and a high expression of CDK6 in B-ALL. A low expression portended inferior survival in a high-risk cohort of pediatric B-ALL. Overall, our results show that IGF2BP3 shows subtype-specificity in expression and provides prognostic utility in high-risk B-ALL.
Preleukemic fusion genes (PFGs) occurring after DNA damage in hematopoietic stem progenitor cells (HSPCs) in utero often represent the initial event in the development of childhood leukemia. While the incidence of PFGs characteristic for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) was relatively well examined by several research groups and estimated to be 1-5% in umbilical cord blood (UCB) of healthy newborns, PFGs that are relevant to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were poorly investigated. Therefore, this study is focused on the estimation of the incidence of the most frequent AML PFGs in newborns. For the first time, this study considered the inducibility of AML PFGs in different subsets of UCB HSPCs by low-dose γ-rays and also compared endogenous DNA damage, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) level between UCB samples containing or lacking AML PFGs. We found that: (i) the incidence of AML PFGs in UCB was 3.19% for RUNX1-RUNX1T1, 3.19% for PML-RARα, and 1.17% for KMT2A-MLLT3, (ii) 50 cGy of γ-rays did not induce RUNX1-RUNX1T1, PML-RARα, or KMT2A-MLLT3 PFGs in different subsets of sorted and expanded HSPCs, and (iii) the AML PFG+ samples accumulated the same level of endogenous DNA damage, as measured by the γH2AX/53BP1 focus formation, and also the same ROS level, and apoptosis as compared to PFG- controls. Our study provides critical insights into the prevalence of AML PFGs in UCB of newborns, without the evidence of a specific HSPC population more susceptible for PFG formation after irradiation to low-dose γ-rays or increased amount of ROS, apoptosis and DNA damage.
Since next-generation sequencing has been widely used in clinical laboratories, the diagnosis and risk stratification of hematologic malignancies are greatly dependent on genetic aberrations. In this study, we analyzed the genomic landscapes of 200 patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) and evaluated the impact of the genomic landscape on diagnosis and risk stratification. Mutations in JAK2, CALR and MPL were detected in 76.4% of MPNs. The proportion of patients with clonal genetic markers increased up to 86.4% when all detectable genetic aberrations were included. Significant co-occurring genetic aberrations potentially associated with phenotype and/or disease progression, including those in JAK2/SF3B1 and TP53/del(13q), del(5q), -7/del(7q) and complex karyotypes, were detected. We also identified genetic aberrations associated with patient outcomes: TP53 and -7/del(7q) were associated with an inferior chance of survival, RUNX1, TP53 and IDH1/2 were associated with leukemic transformation and SF3B1, IDH1/2, ASXL1 and del(20q) were associated with fibrotic progression. We compared risk stratification systems and found that mutation-enhanced prognostic scoring systems could identify lower risk polycythemia vera, essential thrombocythemia and higher risk primary myelofibrosis. Furthermore, the new risk stratification systems showed a better predictive capacity for patient outcome. These results collectively indicate that integrated genetic information can enhance diagnosis and prognostication in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms.
DOI: 10.1038/s41408-021-00461-zPMCID: PMC8016839PMID: 33795645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
The role of microRNA-21-5p (miR-21-5p) in sepsis-induced acute kidney injury (AKI) has been seldom discussed. Therefore, the objective of this present study was to investigate the mechanism of endothelial progenitor cells-derived exosomes (EPCs-exos) in sepsis-induced AKI via miR-21-5p/runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) axis. miR-21-5p was downregulated and RUNX1 was upregulated in the kidney of cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) rats, and miR-21-5p targeted RUNX1. Elevation of miR-21-5p improved renal function and renal tissue pathological damage, attenuated serum inflammatory response, as well as reduced apoptosis and oxidative stress response in renal tissues, and regulated endothelial glycocalyx damage marker proteins syndecan-1 and heparanase-1 in CLP rats. Overexpression of RUNX1 abolished the impacts of elevated miR-21-5p in CLP rats. Also, EPCs-exos upregulated miR-21-5p expression, and functioned similar to elevation of miR-21-5p for CLP rats. Downregulating miR-21-5p partially reversed the effects of EPCs-exos on sepsis-induced AKI. Collectively, our study suggests that EPCs release miR-21-5p-containing exosomes to alleviate sepsis-induced AKI through RUNX1 silencing.
AIM: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogeneous disorder with complex genetic basis and adverse prognosis. Cytogenetics risk, somatic mutations and gene expression profiles are important prognostic factors for AML patients. However, accurate stratification of patient prognosis remains an unsolved problem in AML. This study was to to develop a novel gene profile to accurately classify AML patients into subgroups with different survival probabilities.METHODS: Survival-related genes were determined by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and multivariate analysis using the expression and clinical data of 405 AML patients from Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU) dataset and validated in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. Feature selection was performed by using the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) method. With the LASSO model, a prognostic 85-gene score was established and compared with 2 known gene-expression risk scores. The stratification of AML patients was performed by unsupervised hierarchical clustering of 85 gene expression levels to identify clusters of AML patients with different survival probabilities.RESULTS: The LASSO model comprising 85 genes was considered as the optimal model based on relatively high area under curve value (0.83) and the minimum mean squared error. The 85-gene score was associated with increased mortality in AML patients. Hierarchical clustering analysis of the 85 genes revealed 3 subgroups of AML patients in the OHSU dataset. The cluster1 AML patients were associated with more female cases, higher percent of bone marrow blast cells, 85-gene score, cytogenetics risk, more frequent FLT3-ITD, DNMT3A, NP1 mutations, less frequent TP53, RUNX1 mutations, poorer overall survival than cluster2 tumors. The 85-gene score had higher AUC (0.75) than the 5-gene risk score and LSC17 score (0.74 and 0.65).CONCLUSIONS: The 85-gene score is superior to the 2 established prognostic gene signatures in the prediction of prognosis of AML patients.
In acute myeloid leukemia, t(8;21) detected with a frequency of 10% is associated with good prognosis. However, variant t(8;21) is observed in 4% of these cases, and although the prognostic effects of these variant translocations have not been clearly revealed, there are findings that they affect the prognosis poorly. Here, we report on a 39 years old man, detected 4-way varyant t(8;21) which include relocalization of RUNX1/RUNX1T1 fusion gene, and loss of Y chromosome. RT-PCR also confirmed RUNX1/RUNX1T1 fusion transcript. Additionally, D820G and N822K mutations on KIT gene and mut B on NMP1 gene were detected. A complete remission could not achieved after first chemotherapy treatment. Due to primary resistance and variant of t(8;21), stem cell transplantation was performed. The variant translocation we have reported is unique and also the case is the second case that was reported in the literature in terms of the relocation of the AML1/ETO fusion gene. Since c-KIT mutations and LOY were also observed, it is not possible to predict the prognosis. To highlight the importance of variant translocations and relocalization of fusion gene, more cytogenetic and molecular data are needed.
BACKGROUND: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have emerged as vital regulators in human cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). In this study, we aimed to explore the roles of circRUNX1 in CRC.METHODS: The levels of circRUNX1, RUNX1 mRNA, solute carrier family 38 member 1 (SLC38A1) mRNA and microRNA-485-5p (miR-485-5p) were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis. The protein level of SLC38A1 was measured by Western blot assay. Cell colony formation, migration, invasion and apoptosis were assessed by colony formation assay, wound-healing assay, Transwell assay and flow cytometry analysis, respectively. The interaction between miR-485-5p and circRUNX1 or SLC38A1 was verified by dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay. The levels of extracellular glutamine, intracellular glutamate and α-ketoglutarate (α-KG) were measured with specific kits. The functional role of circRUNX1 in CRC development in vivo was explored by murine xenograft model assay.RESULTS: CircRUNX1 was upregulated in CRC tissues and cells compared with normal tissues and cells. CircRUNX1 deficiency restrained CRC cell colony formation, migration, invasion and glutaminolysis and induced apoptosis in vitro as well as blocked tumour growth in vivo. CircRUNX1 directly sponged miR-485-5p, which negatively modulated SLC38A1 expression in CRC cells. The effects of circRUNX1 knockdown on CRC cell colony formation, migration, invasion, apoptosis and glutaminolysis were reversed by miR-485-5p inhibition. Moreover, miR-485-5p overexpression repressed the malignant behaviours of CRC cells, with SLC38A1 elevation overturned the impacts.CONCLUSION: CircRUNX1 promoted CRC cell growth, metastasis and glutamine metabolism and repressed apoptosis by elevating SLC38A1 through sponging miR-485-5p, which might provide a novel target for CRC treatment.
The impact of adverse risk genetic profiles on outcomes in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) has not been fully elucidated. Accordingly, we have profiled somatic mutations at diagnosis using next-generation sequencing (NGS) in 178 AML patients who received allogeneic HCT. NGS revealed 598 somatic mutations in 165/178 patients (92.7%). Frequently mutated genes include DNMT3A, TET2, NPM1, RUNX1, IDH2, and FLT3. Commonly detected cytogenetic profiles include normal karyotype, trisomy 8, monosomal karyotype (MK), deletion 5, complex karyotype (CK), and monosomy 7. In univariate analyses, TP53 mutation, MK, CK, and monosomy 7 were associated with decreased overall survival (OS), relapse-free survival (RFS), and a higher relapse incidence (RI). We defined adverse molecular-genetic profile as harboring at least one of the molecular/genetic abnormalities of TP53 mutation, MK, CK, monosomy 7, and deletion 5. The patients harboring adverse molecular-genetic profile (n = 30) showed a lower 2-year OS (24.9% vs. 57.9%; p = 0.003), RFS (23.7% vs. 57.9%; p = 0.002), and higher RI (47.2% and 17.2%; p = 0.001) after HCT when compared to patients without those lesions. Multivariate analysis confirmed adverse molecular-genetic profile as an independent prognostic factor, associated with decreased OS (HR 2.19), RFS (HR 2.23), and higher RI (HR 2.94).
INTRODUCTION: BCR-ABL1-like acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a high-risk disease with a complex genomic background. Though extensively studied, data on the frequency and mutual associations of present mutations are still incomplete in adult patients. This retrospective study aims to map the genomic landscape of B-other ALL in a cohort of adult patients with a focus on the BCR-ABL1-like ALL subtype.METHODS: We analyzed bone marrow and peripheral blood samples of adult B-other ALL patients treated consecutively at three major Czech teaching hospitals. Samples were analyzed by cytogenetic methods, gene expression profiling, multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA), and next-generation sequencing (NGS).RESULTS: Fifty-eight B-other ALL patients (not BCR-ABL1, KMT2A-rearranged, ETV6-RUNX1, TCF3-PBX1, or iAMP21) were included in the study. Median follow-up was 23.8 months. Samples from 33 patients were available for a gene expression analysis, 48.9% identified as BCR-ABL1-like ALL. Of the BCR-ABL1-like ALL cases, 18.8% harbored IGH-CRLF2 and 12.5% P2RY8-CRLF2 fusion gene. We observed a higher MRD failure rate in BCR-ABL1-like than in non-BCR-ABL1-like ALL patients after the induction treatment (50.0 vs. 13.3%, p=.05). There was a trend to worse progression-free and overall survival in the BCR-ABL1-like group, though not statistically significant. Deletions in IKZF1 gene were found in 31.3% of BCR-ABL1-like cases. Patients with concurrent IKZF1 and CDKN2A/B, PAX5 or PAR1 region deletions (IKZF1plus profile) had significantly worse progression-free survival than those with sole IKZF1 deletion or IKZF1 wild-type (p=.02). NGS analysis was performed in 54 patients and identified 99 short variants in TP53, JAK2, NRAS, PAX5, CREBBP, NF1, FLT3, ATM, KRAS, RUNX1, and other genes. Seventy-five of these gene variants have not yet been described in B-cell precursor ALL to date.CONCLUSION: This study widens existing knowledge of the BCR-ABL1-like and B-other ALL genomic landscape in the adult population, supports previous findings, and identifies a number of novel gene variants.
BACKGROUND: B Cell Precursor Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (BCP-ALL) is the most common pediatric cancer. Identifying key players involved in proliferation of BCP-ALL cells is crucial to propose new therapeutic targets. Runt Related Transcription Factor 1 (RUNX1) and Core-Binding Factor Runt Domain Alpha Subunit 2 Translocated To 3 (CBFA2T3, ETO2, MTG16) are master regulators of hematopoiesis and are implicated in leukemia.METHODS: We worked with BCP-ALL mononuclear bone marrow patients' cells and BCP-ALL cell lines, and performed Chromatin Immunoprecipitations followed by Sequencing (ChIP-Seq), co-immunoprecipitations (co-IP), proximity ligation assays (PLA), luciferase reporter assays and mouse xenograft models.RESULTS: We demonstrated that CBFA2T3 transcript levels correlate with RUNX1 expression in the pediatric t(12;21) ETV6-RUNX1 BCP-ALL. By ChIP-Seq in BCP-ALL patients' cells and cell lines, we found that RUNX1 is recruited on its promoter and on an enhancer of CBFA2T3 located - 2 kb upstream CBFA2T3 promoter and that, subsequently, the transcription factor RUNX1 drives both RUNX1 and CBFA2T3 expression. We demonstrated that, mechanistically, RUNX1 and CBFA2T3 can be part of the same complex allowing CBFA2T3 to strongly potentiate the activity of the transcription factor RUNX1. Finally, we characterized a CBFA2T3-mimicking peptide that inhibits the interaction between RUNX1 and CBFA2T3, abrogating the activity of this transcription complex and reducing BCP-ALL lymphoblast proliferation.CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, our findings reveal a novel and important activation loop between the transcription regulator CBFA2T3 and the transcription factor RUNX1 that promotes BCP-ALL proliferation, supporting the development of an innovative therapeutic approach based on the NHR2 subdomain of CBFA2T3 protein.
PURPOSE: Children's Oncology Group (COG) AALL0331 tested whether pegaspargase intensification on a low-intensity chemotherapy backbone would improve the continuous complete remission (CCR) rate in a low-risk subset of children with standard-risk B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).METHODS: AALL0331 enrolled 5,377 patients with National Cancer Institute standard-risk B-ALL (age 1-9 years, WBC < 50,000/μL) between 2005 and 2010. Following a common three-drug induction, a cohort of 1,857 eligible patients participated in the low-risk ALL random assignment. Low-risk criteria included no extramedullary disease, < 5% marrow blasts by day 15, end-induction marrow minimal residual disease < 0.1%, and favorable cytogenetics (ETV6-RUNX1 fusion or simultaneous trisomies of chromosomes 4, 10, and 17). Random assignment was to standard COG low-intensity therapy (including two pegaspargase doses, one each during induction and delayed intensification) with or without four additional pegaspargase doses at 3-week intervals during consolidation and interim maintenance. The study was powered to detect a 4% improvement in 6-year CCR rate from 92% to 96%.RESULTS: The 6-year CCR and overall survival (OS) rates for the entire low-risk cohort were 94.7% ± 0.6% and 98.7% ± 0.3%, respectively. The CCR rates were similar between arms (intensified pegaspargase 95.3% ± 0.8% v standard 94.0% ± 0.8%; P = .13) with no difference in OS (98.1% ± 0.5% v 99.2% ± 0.3%; P = .99). Compared to a subset of standard-risk study patients given identical therapy who had the same early response characteristics but did not have favorable or unfavorable cytogenetics, outcomes were significantly superior for low-risk patients (CCR hazard ratio 1.95; P = .0004; OS hazard ratio 5.42; P < .0001).CONCLUSION: Standard COG therapy without intensified pegaspargase, which can easily be given as an outpatient with limited toxicity, cures nearly all children with B-ALL identified as low-risk by clinical, early response, and favorable cytogenetic criteria.
A number of sequencing studies identified the prognostic impact of somatic mutations in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). However the majority of them focused on methylation regulation, apoptosis and proliferation genes. Despite the number of experimental studies published on the role of micro-RNA processing and checkpoint genes in the development of MDS, the clinical data about mutational landscape in these genes is limited. We performed a pilot study which evaluated mutational burden in these genes and their association with common MDS mutations. High prevalence of mutations was observed in the genes studied: 54% had mutations in DICER1, 46% had mutations in LAG3, 20% in CTLA4, 23% in B7-H3, 17% in DROSHA, 14% in PD-1 and 3% in PD-1L. Cluster analysis that included these mutations along with mutations in ASXL1, DNMT3A, EZH2, IDH1, RUNX1, SF3B1, SRSF2, TET2 and TP53 effectively predicted overall survival in the study group (HR 4.2, 95%CI 1.3-13.6, p = 0.016). The study results create the rational for incorporating micro-RNA processing and checkpoint genes in the sequencing panels for MDS and evaluate their role in the multicenter studies.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a common neoplasm in children, but less frequent in adults. Since information on clinical features and genetics of adult ALL in Japan is limited, we analyzed 215 subjects aged 16-65 years with untreated ALL enrolled in the Fukuoka Blood & Marrow Transplant Group studies ALL MRD 2002 and 2008. The prevalence of ALL was bimodal, with the larger group aged 56-65 years. Immunophenotypic characterization showed B-lineage is more frequent than T-lineage ALL (78.6 vs 13.0%), with age-related differences. The proportion with BCR-ABL1 rearrangement increased progressively with age, up to 55.7% among subjects aged over 56-65 years. Rearrangements involving the KMT2A gene, ETV6-RUNX1, and TCF3-PBX1 were rare in this study cohort. The overall incidence of hyperdiploidy was only 1.7%, and there were no cases with hypodiploidy. Overall survival varied by age and cytogenetics. Older subjects and those with BCR-ABL1 tended to have inferior outcomes. In this epidemiological study of Japanese adult ALL, the majority of subjects had B-lineage ALL, the T-cell phenotype was most frequent in those aged 16-25, and BCR-ABL1 rearrangement was very common, with prevalence increasing with age. These types of adult ALL are potentially manageable with targeted therapies.
Improvement in outcomes of children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is attributed to several refinements in clinical management. We evaluated treatment outcomes of Taiwanese pediatric AML patients in the past 20 years. Overall, 860 de novo AML patients aged 0-18 years and registered in the Childhood Cancer Foundation of R.O.C during January 1996-December 2019 were included. Survival analysis was performed to identify factors that improved treatment outcomes. Regardless of treatment modalities used, patients during 2008-2019 had better 5-year event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) rates than patients during 1996-2007. For patients received the TPOG-AML-97A treatment, only 5-year OS rates were significantly different between patients diagnosed before and after 2008. Patients with RUNX1-RUNX1T1 had similar relapse-free survival rates, but 5-year OS rates were better during 2008-2019. However, the survival of patients who received hematopoietic stem-cell transplantations (HSCT) did not differ significantly before and after 2008. For patients without relapse, the 5-year OS improved during 2008-2019. Non-relapse mortality decreased annually, and cumulative relapse rates were similar. In conclusion, 5-year EFS and OS rates improved during 2008-2019, though intensities of chemotherapy treatments were similar before and after 2008. Non-relapse mortality decreased gradually. Further treatment strategies including more intensive chemotherapy, novel agents' use, identification of high-risk patients using genotyping and minimal residual disease, early intervention of HSCT, and antibiotic prophylaxis can be considered for future clinical protocol designs in Taiwan.
Cancer hallmark genes are responsible for the most essential phenotypic characteristics of malignant transformation and progression. In this study, our aim was to estimate the prognostic effect of the established cancer hallmark genes in multiple distinct cancer types. RNA-seq HTSeq counts and survival data from 26 different tumor types were acquired from the TCGA repository. DESeq was used for normalization. Correlations between gene expression and survival were computed using the Cox proportional hazards regression and by plotting Kaplan-Meier survival plots. The false discovery rate was calculated to correct for multiple hypothesis testing. Signatures based on genes involved in genome instability and invasion reached significance in most individual cancer types. Thyroid and glioblastoma were independent of hallmark genes (61 and 54 genes significant, respectively), while renal clear cell cancer and low grade gliomas harbored the most prognostic changes (403 and 419 genes significant, respectively). The eight genes with the highest significance included BRCA1 (genome instability, HR 4.26, p < 1E-16), RUNX1 (sustaining proliferative signaling, HR 2.96, p = 3.1E-10) and SERPINE1 (inducing angiogenesis, HR 3.36, p = 1.5E-12) in low grade glioma, CDK1 (cell death resistance, HR = 5.67, p = 2.1E-10) in kidney papillary carcinoma, E2F1 (tumor suppressor, HR 0.38, p = 2.4E-05) and EREG (enabling replicative immortality, HR 3.23, p = 2.1E-07) in cervical cancer, FBP1 (deregulation of cellular energetics, HR 0.45, p = 2.8E-07) in kidney renal clear cell carcinoma and MYC (invasion and metastasis, HR 1.81, p = 5.8E-05) in bladder cancer. We observed unexpected heterogeneity and tissue specificity when correlating cancer hallmark genes and survival. These results will help to prioritize future targeted therapy development in different types of solid tumors.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a hematopoietic malignancy comprised of molecular subtypes largely characterized by aneuploidy or recurring chromosomal rearrangements. Despite extensive information on the ALL transcriptome and methylome, there is limited understanding of the ALL chromatin landscape. We therefore mapped accessible chromatin in 24 primary ALL cell biospecimens comprising three common molecular subtypes (DUX4/ERG, ETV6-RUNX1 and hyperdiploid) from patients treated at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. Our findings highlight extensive chromatin reprogramming in ALL, including the identification ALL subtype-specific chromatin landscapes that are additionally modulated by genetic variation. Chromatin accessibility differences between ALL and normal B-cells implicate the activation of B-cell repressed chromatin domains and detail the disruption of normal B-cell development in ALL. Among ALL subtypes, we uncovered roles for basic helix-loop-helix, homeodomain and activator protein 1 transcription factors in promoting subtype-specific chromatin accessibility and distinct gene regulatory networks. In addition to chromatin subtype-specificity, we further identified over 3500 DNA sequence variants that alter the ALL chromatin landscape and contribute to inter-individual variability in chromatin accessibility. Collectively, our data suggest that subtype-specific chromatin landscapes and gene regulatory networks impact ALL biology and contribute to transcriptomic differences among ALL subtypes.
Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting BCR-ABL1 have revolutionized therapy for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), paving the way for clinical development in other diseases. Despite success, targeting leukemic stem cells and overcoming drug resistance remain challenges for curative cancer therapy. To identify drivers of kinase-independent TKI resistance in CML, we performed genome-wide expression analyses on TKI-resistant versus sensitive CML cell lines, revealing a nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) expression signature. Nucleocytoplasmic fractionation and luciferase reporter assays confirmed increased NF-κB activity in the nucleus of TKI-resistant versus sensitive CML cell lines and CD34+ patient samples. Two genes that were upregulated in TKI-resistant CML cells were proteasome 26S subunit, non-ATPases 1 (PSMD1) and 3 (PSMD3), both members of the 19S regulatory complex in the 26S proteasome. PSMD1 and PSMD3 were also identified as survival-critical genes in a published small hairpin RNA library screen of TKI resistance. We observed markedly higher levels of PSMD1 and PSMD3 mRNA in CML patients who had progressed to the blast phase compared with the chronic phase of the disease. Knockdown of PSMD1 or PSMD3 protein correlated with reduced survival and increased apoptosis in CML cells, but not in normal cord blood CD34+ progenitors. Luciferase reporter assays and immunoblot analyses demonstrated that PSMD1 and PSMD3 promote NF-κB protein expression in CML, and that signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) further activates NF-κB in scenarios of TKI resistance. Our data identify NF-κB as a transcriptional driver in TKI resistance, and implicate PSMD1 and PSMD3 as plausible therapeutic targets worthy of future investigation in CML and possibly other malignancies.
Pituitary prolactinoma is one of the most complicated and fatally pathogenic pituitary adenomas. Therefore, there is an urgent need to improve our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanism that drives the initiation, progression, and metastasis of pituitary prolactinoma. The aim of the present study was to identify the key genes and signaling pathways associated with pituitary prolactinoma using bioinformatics analysis. Transcriptome microarray dataset GSE119063 was downloaded from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Limma package in R software was used to screen DEGs. Pathway and Gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis were conducted to identify the biological role of DEGs. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed and analyzed by using HIPPIE database and Cytoscape software. Module analyses was performed. In addition, a target gene-miRNA regulatory network and target gene-TF regulatory network were constructed by using NetworkAnalyst and Cytoscape software. Finally, validation of hub genes by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. A total of 989 DEGs were identified, including 461 up regulated genes and 528 down regulated genes. Pathway enrichment analysis showed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in the retinoate biosynthesis II, signaling pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells, ALK2 signaling events, vitamin D3 biosynthesis, cell cycle and aurora B signaling. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment analysis showed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in the sensory organ morphogenesis, extracellular matrix, hormone activity, nuclear division, condensed chromosome and microtubule binding. In the PPI network and modules, SOX2, PRSS45, CLTC, PLK1, B4GALT6, RUNX1 and GTSE1 were considered as hub genes. In the target gene-miRNA regulatory network and target gene-TF regulatory network, LINC00598, SOX4, IRX1 and UNC13A were considered as hub genes. Using integrated bioinformatics analysis, we identified candidate genes in pituitary prolactinoma, which might improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of pituitary prolactinoma.
Around 85% of childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) are of B-cell origin and characterized by the presence of different translocations including BCR-ABL1, ETV6-RUNX1, E2A-PBX1, and MLL fusion proteins. The current clinical investigations used to identify ETV6-RUNX1 translocation include FISH and fusion transcript specific PCR. In the current study we assessed the utility of IGF2BP1, an oncofetal RNA binding protein, that is over expressed specifically in ETV6-RUNX1 translocation positive B-ALL to be used as a diagnostic marker in the clinic. Further, public transcriptomic and Crosslinked Immunoprecipitation (CLIP) datasets were analyzed to identify the putative targets of IGF2BP1. We also studied the utility of using the mRNA expression of two such targets, MYC and EGFL7 as potential diagnostic markers separately or in conjunction with IGF2BP1. We observed that the expression of IGF2BP1 alone measured by RT-qPCR is highly sensitive and specific to be used as a potential biomarker for the presence of ETV6-RUNX1 translocation in future.
Comment on    Blood. 2021 Mar 11;137(10):1377-1391.
Recent advances in the description of the tumor microenvironment of acute myeloid leukemia, including the comprehensive analysis of the leukemic stem cell niche and clonal evolution, indicate that inflammation may play a major role in many aspects of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) such as disease progression, chemoresistance, and myelosuppression. Studies on the mechanisms of resistance to chemotherapy or tyrosine kinase inhibitors along with high-throughput drug screening have underpinned the potential role of glucocorticoids in this disease classically described as steroid-resistant in contrast to acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Moreover, some mutated oncogenes such as RUNX1, NPM1, or SRSF2 transcriptionally modulate cell state in a manner that primes leukemic cells for glucocorticoid sensitivity. In clinical practice, inflammatory markers such as serum ferritin or IL-6 have a strong prognostic impact and may directly affect disease progression, whereas interesting preliminary data suggested that dexamethasone may improve the outcome for AML patients with a high white blood cell count, which paves the way to develop prospective clinical trials that evaluate the role of glucocorticoids in AML.
In 2016, the World Health Organization incorporated 'myeloid neoplasms with germline predisposition' into its classification of tumors of hematopoietic and lymphoid tissues, revealing the important role of germline mutations in certain myeloid neoplasms, particularly myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. The awareness of germline susceptibility has increased, and some patients with myeloid neoplasms present with a preexisting disorder or organ dysfunction. In such cases, mutations in genes including CCAAT enhancer binding protein α (CEBPA), DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp) box polypeptide 41 (DDX41), RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), GATA binding protein 2 (GATA2), Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) and ETS variant transcription factor 6 (ETV6) have been recognized. Moreover, with the application of advanced technologies and reports of more cases, additional germline mutations associated with myeloid neoplasms have been identified and provide insights into the formation, prognosis and therapy of myeloid neoplasms. The present review discusses the well-known CEBPA, DDX41, RUNX1, GATA2, JAK2 and ETV6 germline mutations, and other mutations including those of lymphocyte adapter protein/SH2B adapter protein 3 and duplications of autophagy related 2B, GSK3B interacting protein αnd RB binding protein 6, ubiquitin ligase, that remain to be confirmed or explored. Recommendations for the management of diseases associated with germline mutations are also provided.
Erratum in    Leukemia. 2022 Dec;36(12):2949.
Mutations in the transcription factors GATA binding factor 1 (GATA1), growth factor independence 1B (GFI1B), and Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) cause familial platelet and bleeding disorders. Mutant platelets exhibit common abnormalities including an α-granule reduction resulting in a grayish appearance in blood smears. This suggests that similar pathways are deregulated by different transcription factor mutations. To identify common factors, full platelet proteomes from 11 individuals with mutant GATA1R216Q, GFI1BQ287*, RUNX1Q154Rfs, or RUNX1TD2-6 and 28 healthy controls were examined by label-free quantitative mass spectrometry. In total, 2875 platelet proteins were reliably quantified. Clustering analysis of more than 300 differentially expressed proteins revealed profound differences between cases and controls. Among cases, 44 of 143 significantly downregulated proteins were assigned to platelet function, hemostasis, and granule biology, in line with platelet dysfunction and bleedings. Remarkably, none of these proteins were significantly diminished in all affected cases. Similarly, no proteins were commonly overrepresented in all affected cases compared with controls. These data indicate that the studied transcription factor mutations alter platelet proteomes in distinct largely nonoverlapping manners. This work provides the quantitative landscape of proteins that affect platelet function when deregulated by mutated transcription factors in inherited bleeding disorders.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an important therapeutic modality for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) with poor risk features. Nonetheless, roughly 30% of such patients have leukemia recurrence and up to 2% of these are donor-derived leukemias, in which malignancy develops in the donor's transplanted cells, despite extremely low rates of leukemia in the donors themselves. Notably, over 20% of these malignancies carry chromosome 7 abnormalities nearly all of which are monosomies. Recent advances in whole exome and genome sequencing have allowed for detection of candidate genes that likely contribute to the development of AML in donor cells (donor leukemia, DCL). These genes include CEBPA, GATA2, JAK2, RUNX1, DDX41, EZH2, IDH1/2, DNMT3A, ASXL1, XPD, XRCC3, and CHEK1. The potential roles of variants in these genes are evaluated based on familial clustering of MDS/AML and corresponding animal studies demonstrating their leukemogenic nature. This review describes the spectrum of genetic aberrations detected in DCL cases in the literature with regard to the character of the individual cases, existing family cohorts that carry individual genes, and functional studies that support etiologic roles in AML development. DCL presents a unique opportunity to examine genetic variants in the donors and recipients with regards to progression to malignancy.
A 67-year-old male patient was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in April 2018. Chromosome analysis showed an abnormal male karyotype with an isodicentric chromosome 7q resulting in deletion 7q and two copies of 7p and a derivative chromosome 18 in 13 of the 20 metaphase cells examined. This karyotype was described as 46,XY,idic(7)(q11.2),der(18)t(1;18)(q23;q21.1)[13]/46,XY[7]. Additionally, subsequent sequencing analysis displayed FLT3-ITD and RUNX1 mutations (data not shown). The bone marrow showed an overwhelming number of blast cells, with co-expression of CD34, CD117, TdT, MPO, CD7, CD13, CD33, CD38, CD19, and HLA-DR. Molecular cytogenetic studies showed a deletion of one RELN/TES (7q22/7q31) signal in 80.5% of nuclei and a gain of a BCR/ABL1 (22q11.2/9q34) signal in 3.5% of interphase nuclei examined. These findings were described as nuc ish(RELN,TES)x1[161/200],(ABL1x2,BCRx3)[7/200], (EVI1,TAS2R1,EGR1,DEK,MYC,NUP214,KMT2A,DLEU1,DLEU2,Clone 163C9,PML,CBFB,RARA,PTPRT,MYBL2,RUNX1)x2[200]. The patient relapsed with AML in September 2019 and underwent treatment. However, all AML treatment options were exhausted by March 2020. An isodicentric chromosome 7 leading to two copies of the short arm of chromosome 7 (7p) and deletion 7q is a rare event in AML and is rarely described in the literature. The key element here is that this specific rearrangement leads to deletion 7q which is a well-known abnormality in AML that places the patient in the Poor/Adverse risk category.
Objectives: We theorized that myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with somatic mutations and karyotype abnormalities are associated with autoinflammation, and that the presence of autoinflammatory disease affected prognosis in MDS. Methods: One hundred thirty-four MDS patients were assessed for the prevalence of autoinflammatory complications and its link with karyotypes and somatic mutation status. Autoinflammatory complications were described either as well-defined autoinflammatory diseases (AD) or undifferentiated "autoinflammatory disease" (UAD) (defined as CRP over 10.0 mg/L on five consecutive occasions, taken at separate times and not explained by infection). Several patient characteristics including demographic, clinical, laboratory, cytogenetics charts, and outcomes, were compared between different groups. Results: Sixty-two (46.3%) patients had an autoinflammatory complication manifesting as arthralgia (43.5% vs. 23.6%, p = 0.0146), arthritis (30.6% vs. 15.3%, p = 0.0340), skin rash (27.4% vs. 12.5%, p = 0.0301), pleuritis (14.5% vs. 4.2%, p = 0.0371) and unexplained fever (27.4% vs. 0%, p < 0.0001). AD were found in 7.4% of MDS patients (with polymyalgia rheumatic being the most frequently one). Classical autoimmune diseases were found only in 4 MDS patients (3.0%). Transcription factor pathway mutations (RUNX1, BCOR, WTI, TP53) (OR 2.20 [95%CI 1.02-4.75], p = 0.0451) and abnormal karyotypes (OR 2.76 [95%CI 1.22-6.26], p = 0.0153) were associated with autoinflammatory complications. Acute leukaemic transformation was more frequent in MDS patients with autoinflammatory features than those without (27.4% vs. 9.7%, p = 0.0080). Conclusions: Autoinflammatory complications are common in MDS. Somatic mutations of transcription factor pathways and abnormal karyotypes are associated with greater risk of autoinflammatory complications, which are themselves linked to malignant transformation and a worse prognosis.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou 350001, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Fujian Institute of Hematology, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou 350001, China.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450052, China.
The diagnosis of acute myeloid leukaemia and related neoplasms in adults is challenging as this requires the integration of clinical findings, morphology, immunophenotype, cytogenetics, and molecular genetic findings. Lack of familiarity with rare subtypes of acute leukaemia hinders the diagnosis. In this review, we will describe diagnostic findings of several rare acute myeloid leukaemias and related neoplasms that primarily occur in adults including information on presentation, morphology, immunophenotype, genetics, differential diagnosis, and prognosis. Leukaemias discussed include blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm, acute myeloid leukaemia with t(6;9) (p23;q34.1); DEK-NUP214, acute myeloid leukaemia with inv(3)(q21.3q26.2) or t(3;3)(q21.3;q26.2); GATA2, MECOM, acute myeloid leukaemia with BCR-ABL1, acute leukaemias of ambiguous lineage, acute myeloid leukaemia with mutated RUNX1, pure erythroid leukaemia, acute panmyelosis with myelofibrosis, and acute basophilic leukaemia. Case studies with morphological features of the nine subtypes of acute myeloid leukaemia and related neoplasms have been included, and additional evidence available since publication of the 2016 World Health Organization Classification has been added to each subtype.
Personalized treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that target individual aberrations strongly improved the survival of AML patients. However, AML is still one of the most lethal cancer diseases of the 21st century, demonstrating the need to find novel drug targets and to explore alternative treatment strategies. Upon investigation of public perturbation data, we identified the transcription factor IRF8 as a novel AML-specific susceptibility gene in humans. IRF8 is upregulated in a subset of AML cells and its deletion leads to impaired proliferation in those cells. Consistently, high IRF8 expression is associated with poorer patients' prognoses. Combining gene expression changes upon IRF8 deletion and the genome-wide localization of IRF8 in the AML cell line MV4-11, we demonstrate that IRF8 directly regulates key signaling molecules, such as the kinases SRC and FAK, the transcription factors RUNX1 and IRF5, and the cell cycle regulator Cyclin D1. IRF8 loss impairs AML-driving signaling pathways, including the WNT, Chemokine, and VEGF signaling pathways. Additionally, many members of the focal adhesion pathway showed reduced expression, providing a putative link between high IRF8 expression and poor prognosis. Thus, this study suggests that IRF8 could serve as a biomarker and potential molecular target in a subset of human AMLs.
The proper balance of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) self-renewal and differentiation is critical for normal hematopoiesis and is disrupted in hematologic malignancy. Among regulators of HSC fate, transcription factors have a well-defined central role, and mutations promote malignant transformation. More recently, studies have illuminated the importance of posttranscriptional regulation by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) in hematopoiesis and leukemia development. However, the RBPs involved and the breadth of regulation are only beginning to be elucidated. Furthermore, the intersection between posttranscriptional regulation and hematopoietic transcription factor function is poorly understood. Here, we studied the posttranscriptional regulation of RUNX1, a key hematopoietic transcription factor. Alternative polyadenylation (APA) of RUNX1 produces functionally antagonistic protein isoforms (RUNX1a vs RUNX1b/c) that mediate HSC self-renewal vs differentiation, an RNA-processing event that is dysregulated in malignancy. Consequently, RBPs that regulate this event directly contribute to healthy and aberrant hematopoiesis. We modeled RUNX1 APA using a split GFP minigene reporter and confirmed the sensitivity of our model to detect changes in RNA processing. We used this reporter in a clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR) screen consisting of single guide RNAs exclusively targeting RBPs and uncovered HNRNPA1 and KHDRBS1 as antagonistic regulators of RUNX1a isoform generation. Overall, our study provides mechanistic insight into the posttranscriptional regulation of a key hematopoietic transcription factor and identifies RBPs that may have widespread and important functions in hematopoiesis.
INTRODUCTION: Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a group of heterogeneous hematological diseases characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis and dysplastic morphology. Single nucleotide polymorphism array (SNP-A)-based whole genome analysis has a much higher resolution for chromosomal alterations when compared with conventional cytogenetic tools. In the present study, we evaluated the diagnostic value and prognostic significance of SNP-A in MDS patients with normal karyotypes.METHODS: A total of 127 patients with MDS and myeloproliferative neoplasms or acute myeloid leukemia with myelodysplasia-related changes were included in our study. The advantages and disadvantages of SNP-A were compared with those of traditional metaphase cytogenetic analysis (MC). The Kaplan-Meier analysis and COX regression analysis were used to investigate the prognostic value of SNP-A and uniparental disomy (UPD) in MDS patients with normal karyotype. Furthermore, the chromosomal abnormalities detected by SNP-A in patients with specific gene mutations were explored.RESULTS: SNP-A was more sensitive toward meaningful chromosomal aberrations (58.2% vs 36.9%; P < .05) than MC. Among the patients with normal karyotype, those who were detected with new chromosomal abnormalities via SNP-A presented with inferior survival compared with those without the abnormalities (P = .003). Additionally, the presence of UPD was an independent prognostic factor in patients with normal karyotype (P = .01). TP53 and RUNX1 mutations often occurred with abnormalities in chromosomes 17p and 21q, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Compared with MC, SNP-A capable of detecting UPD can offer more diagnostic and prognostic information; TP53 and RUNX1 gene mutations are often accompanied by abnormalities in their chromosomes (17p, 22q).
Leukemia cell-intrinsic somatic mutations and cytogenetic abnormalities have been used to define risk categories in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In addition, since the immune microenvironment might influence prognosis and somatic mutations have been demonstrated to modulate the immune microenvironment in AML, there is need for developing and evaluating an immune prognostic model (IPM) derived from mutations associated with poor prognosis. Based on AML cases with intermediate and adverse-cytogenetic risk in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, 64 immune-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) among patients with RUNX1, TP53, or ASXL1 mutations and patients without these mutations were identified. After Cox proportional hazards analysis, an IPM composed of PYCARD and PEAR1 genes was constructed. IPM defined high-risk (IPM-HR) independently predicted lower 2-year overall survival (OS) rates in both patients with intermediate and adverse-cytogenetic risks and non-M3 patients in the TCGA AML cohort. The poor prognostic impact of IPM-HR on OS was further validated by GSE71014, 37642, and 10358 downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Furthermore, IPM-HR was remarkably associated with higher proportions of CD8+ T cells and regulatory T cells (Tregs), lower proportions of eosinophils, and higher expression of the checkpoint molecules CTLA-4, PD-1, and LAG3 in the TCGA non-M3 AML cohort. In summary, we developed and validated an IPM derived from mutations related with poor prognosis in AML, which would provide new biomarkers for patient stratification and personalized immunotherapy.
Intrachromosomal amplification of RUNX1 gene on chromosome 21 (iAMP21) is a rare occurrence in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Herein, we describe a case of AML with amplification of RUNX1 and its insertion on chromosome 2 detected by conventional karyotyping and confirmed by metaphase FISH. A six-year-old female was diagnosed as acute myeloid leukemia with monocytic differentiation. The patient's bone marrow revealed 74% blasts which were MPO negative. Conventional karyotyping revealed a complex karyotype, with rearrangements in chromosomes 1, 2, 7, 8 and hsr(21). FISH on interphase cells with LSI RUNX1-RUNX1T1 dual colour dual fusion translocation probe showed 6-7 copies of RUNX1 signal. Metaphase FISH with LSI RUNX1-RUNX1T1 probe confirmed amplification of RUNX1 and insertion of amplified RUNX1 sequences on long arm of chromosome 2. Induction chemotherapy was initiated, however, the patient died within one month of diagnosis suggesting poor outcome associated with this novel finding. Insertion of amplified RUNX1 on another chromosome has not yet been reported so far.
Aberrant expression of the transcriptional modulator and early B-cell factor 1 (EBF1) antagonist ZNF423 has been implicated in B-cell leukemogenesis, but its impact on transcriptional circuitries in lymphopoiesis has not been elucidated in a comprehensive manner. Herein, in silico analyses of multiple expression data sets on 1354 acute leukemia samples revealed a widespread presence of ZNF423 in various subtypes of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Average expression of ZNF423 was highest in ETV6-RUNX1, B-other, and TCF3-PBX1 ALL followed by BCR-ABL, hyperdiploid ALL, and KMT2A-rearranged ALL. In a KMT2A-AFF1 pro-B ALL model, a CRISPR-Cas9-mediated genetic ablation of ZNF423 decreased cell viability and significantly prolonged survival of mice upon xenotransplantation. For the first time, we characterized the genome-wide binding pattern of ZNF423, its impact on the chromatin landscape, and differential gene activities in a B-lineage context. In general, chromatin-bound ZNF423 was associated with a depletion of activating histone marks. At the transcriptional level, EBF1-dependent transactivation was disrupted by ZNF423, whereas repressive and pioneering activities of EBF1 were not discernibly impeded. Unexpectedly, we identified an enrichment of ZNF423 at canonical EBF1-binding sites also in the absence of EBF1, which was indicative of intrinsic EBF1-independent ZNF423 activities. A genome-wide motif search at EBF1 target gene loci revealed that EBF1 and ZNF423 co-regulated genes often contain SMAD1/SMAD4-binding motifs as exemplified by the TGFB1 promoter, which was repressed by ZNF423 outcompeting EBF1 by depending on its ability to bind EBF1 consensus sites and to interact with EBF1 or SMADs. Overall, these findings underscore the wide scope of ZNF423 activities that interfere with B-cell lymphopoiesis and contribute to leukemogenesis.
The development of high-throughput sequencing technologies has ushered in a new era of genomic testing in clinical medicine. This has greatly enhanced our diagnostic repertoire for hemostatic diseases particularly for milder or rarer bleeding disorders. New genetic causes for heritable platelet disorders have been discovered along with the recognition of clinical manifestations outside hemostasis, such as the association of leukemia with RUNX1 variation. Genome-wide association studies in heritable thrombophilia have demonstrated that some of the genetic variants that are commonly included in thrombophilia testing are of no clinical relevance, while uncovering new variants that should potentially be included. The implementation of new technology has necessitated far-reaching changes in clinical practice to deal with incidental findings, variants of uncertain significance, and genetic disease modifiers. Mild bleeding disorders that were previously considered to have a monogenic basis now appear to have an oligogenic etiology. To harness these advances in knowledge large databases have been developed to capture the new genomic information with phenotypic features on a population-wide scale. The use of this so-called "big data" requires new bioinformatics tools with the promise of delivering precision medicine in the foreseeable future. This review discusses the use of these technologies in clinical practice, the benefits of genomic testing, and some of the challenges associated with implementation.
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is characterized by dysregulated cellular immunity. Interleukin 17 (IL-17) and its secreting cells (Th17) are involved in the pathogenesis of ITP. Retinoic acid receptor-related orphan receptor γt (RORγt) is the chief regulator of Th17 development. The interaction among Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and IL-17-related genes in ITP remains questionable. The study aimed to evaluate the expression of RUNX1 and RORγt together with IL-17A and IL-17F genes in childhood ITP to investigate their contribution to disease pathogenesis and clinical presentation. Ninety children were included, 30 primary active ITP patients, 30 ITP patients in remission after treatment, and 30 healthy controls. The expression levels of RUNX1, RORγt, IL-17A, and IL-17F genes were measured. Significant overexpression of RUNX1, RORγt, IL-17A, and IL-17F genes was observed in active ITP patients, which was restored to normal levels in both ITP patients in remission and controls (P<0.001 for the 4 genes). Positive correlations between RUNX1, RORγt, IL-17A, and IL-17F expression levels were observed in active ITP patients (P=0.001 for RUNX1 with RORγt, P<0.001 for RUNX1 with both IL-17A and IL-17F, regarding RORγtP<0.001 with IL-17A and P=0.002 with IL-17F, P=0.001 for IL-17A with IL-17F). In conclusion, RUNX1 is possibly involved in the molecular pathogenesis of ITP upregulating the expression of Th17-secreted cytokines, IL-17A and IL-17F, through RORγt at the transcriptional level. Thus, targeting RUNX1 or RORγt may be new alternative therapeutic strategies.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the shared genetic and epigenetic mechanisms between the osteogenic differentiation of dental pulp stem cells (DPSC) and bone marrow stem cells (BMSC).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The profiling datasets of miRNA expression in the osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells from the dental pulp (DPSC) and bone marrow (BMSC) were searched in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The differential expression analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed miRNAs (DEmiRNAs) dysregulated in DPSC and BMSC osteodifferentiation. The target genes of the DEmiRNAs that were dysregulated in DPSC and BMSC osteodifferentiation were identified, followed by the identification of the signaling pathways and biological processes (BPs) of these target genes. Accordingly, the DEmiRNA-transcription factor (TFs) network and the DEmiRNAs-small molecular drug network involved in the DPSC and BMSC osteodifferentiation were constructed.RESULTS: 16 dysregulated DEmiRNAs were found to be overlapped in the DPSC and BMSC osteodifferentiation, including 8 DEmiRNAs with a common expression pattern (8 upregulated DEmiRNAs (miR-101-3p, miR-143-3p, miR-145-3p/5p, miR-19a-3p, miR-34c-5p, miR-3607-3p, miR-378e, miR-671-3p, and miR-671-5p) and 1 downregulated DEmiRNA (miR-671-3p/5p)), as well as 8 DEmiRNAs with a different expression pattern (i.e., miR-1273g-3p, miR-146a-5p, miR-146b-5p, miR-337-3p, miR-382-3p, miR-4508, miR-4516, and miR-6087). Several signaling pathways (TNF, mTOR, Hippo, neutrophin, and pathways regulating pluripotency of stem cells), transcription factors (RUNX1, FOXA1, HIF1A, and MYC), and small molecule drugs (curcumin, docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), vitamin D3, arsenic trioxide, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), and naringin) were identified as common regulators of both the DPSC and BMSC osteodifferentiation.CONCLUSION: Common genetic and epigenetic mechanisms are involved in the osteodifferentiation of DPSCs and BMSCs.
RUNX1-related disorder (RUNX1-RD) is caused by germline variants affecting the RUNX1 gene. This rare, heterogeneous disorder has no specific clinical or laboratory phenotype, making genetic diagnosis necessary. Although international recommendations have been established to classify the pathogenicity of variants, identifying the causative alteration remains a challenge in RUNX1-RD. Murine models may be useful not only for definitively settling the controversy about the pathogenicity of certain RUNX1 variants, but also for elucidating the mechanisms of molecular pathogenesis. Therefore, we developed a knock-in murine model, using the CRISPR/Cas9 system, carrying the RUNX1 p.Leu43Ser variant (mimicking human p.Leu56Ser) to study its pathogenic potential and mechanisms of platelet dysfunction. A total number of 75 mice were generated; 25 per genotype (RUNX1WT/WT, RUNX1WT/L43S, and RUNX1L43S/L43S). Platelet phenotype was assessed by flow cytometry and confocal microscopy. On average, RUNX1L43S/L43S and RUNX1WT/L43S mice had a significantly longer tail-bleeding time than RUNX1WT/WT mice, indicating the variant's involvement in hemostasis. However, only homozygous mice displayed mild thrombocytopenia. RUNX1L43S/L43S and RUNX1WT/L43S displayed impaired agonist-induced spreading and α-granule release, with no differences in δ-granule secretion. Levels of integrin αIIbβ3 activation, fibrinogen binding, and aggregation were significantly lower in platelets from RUNX1L43S/L43S and RUNX1WT/L43S using phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), adenosine diphosphate (ADP), and high thrombin doses. Lower levels of PKC phosphorylation in RUNX1L43S/L43S and RUNX1WT/L43S suggested that the PKC-signaling pathway was impaired. Overall, we demonstrated the deleterious effect of the RUNX1 p.Leu56Ser variant in mice via the impairment of integrin αIIbβ3 activation, aggregation, α-granule secretion, and platelet spreading, mimicking the phenotype associated with RUNX1 variants in the clinical setting.
In order to increase the contribution of donor HSC cells, irradiation and DNA alkylating agents have been commonly used as experimental methods to eliminate HSCs for adult mice. But a technique of HSC deletion for mouse embryo for increase contribution of donor cells has not been published. Here, we established for the first time a procedure for placental HSC transplantation into E11.5 Runx1-deficient mice mated with G1-HRD-Runx1 transgenic mice (Runx1-/-::Tg mice) that have no HSCs in the fetal liver. Following the transplantation of fetal liver cells from mice (allogeneic) or rats (xenogeneic), high donor cell chimerism was observed in Runx1-/-::Tg embryos. Furthermore, chimerism analysis and colony assay data showed that donor fetal liver hematopoietic cells contributed to both white blood cells and red blood cells. Moreover, secondary transplantation into adult recipient mice indicated that the HSCs in rescued Runx1-/-::Tg embryos had normal abilities. These results suggest that mice lacking fetal liver HSCs are a powerful tool for hematopoiesis reconstruction during the embryonic stage and can potentially be used in basic research on HSCs or xenograft models.
Familial Platelet Disorder with associated Myeloid Malignancy (FPDMM) is a rare inherited disorder confirmed with the presence of a pathogenic germline RUNX1 variant and is thought to be heavily underdiagnosed. RUNX1 has also been found to be mutated in up to 10% of adult AML cases and other cell malignancies. We performed targeted next-generation sequencing and subsequent MLPA analysis in a kindred with multiple affected individuals with low platelet counts and a bleeding history. We detected a novel heterozygous exon 3-7 large deletion in the RUNX1 gene in all affected family members which is predicted to remove all of the Runt-homology DNA-binding domain and a portion of the Activation domain. Our results show that the combination of targeted NGS and MLPA analysis is an effective way to detect copy number variants (CNVs) which would be missed by conventional sequencing methods. This precise diagnosis offers the possibility of accurate counseling and clinical management in such patients who could go onto develop other cell malignancies.
BACKGROUND: Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) has high morbidity and mortality worldwide. However, the pathogenesis of AMI is still unclear, and the impact of circular RNAs (circRNAs) on AMI has rarely been recognized and needs to be explored.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The circRNA array was applied to investigate the expression level of circRNAs in the blood samples of coronary arteries of three AMI patients and three normal persons. Principal component analysis (PCA) and unsupervised clustering analysis were performed to reveal the distinguished expression patterns of circRNAs. The miRNA expression profiles of AMI patients were identified from a public dataset from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (GSE31568). The miRNA binding sites on the circRNAs were predicted by miRanda. The miRNA enrichment analysis and annotation tool were used to explore the pathways that the dysregulated circRNAs may participate in.RESULTS: In total, 142 differentially expressed circRNAs, including 89 upregulated and 53 downregulated in AMI samples, were identified by the differential expression analysis. AMI patients had quite different circRNA expression profiles to those of normal controls. Functional characterization revealed that circRNAs that had the potential to regulate miRNAs were mainly involved in seven pathways, such as the Runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1) expression and activity-related pathway. Specifically, hsa_circRNA_001654, hsa_circRNA_091761, hsa_circRNA_405624, and hsa_circRNA_406698 were predicted to sponge four miRNAs including hsa-miR-491-3p, hsa-miR-646, hsa-miR-603, and hsa-miR-922, thereby regulating RUNX1 expression or activity.CONCLUSION: We identified dysregulated blood circRNAs in the coronary arteries of AMI patients and predicted that four upregulated circRNAs were involved in the regulation of RUNX1 expression or activity through sponging four miRNAs.
Heat Shock Protein 90 (Hsp90) is frequently upregulated in many cancers, and its inhibition simultaneously blocks multiple signaling pathways, resulting in cell differentiation or apoptosis. However, the complexity of Hsp90 in differentiation and its relation with apoptosis have remained unsettled. In this study, we demonstrated that HDN-1, a C-terminal inhibitor of Hsp90, induced the differentiation of HL-60 cells toward apoptosis. HDN-1 induced the differentiation of cells containing mutant AML1-ETO into mature granulocytes, which was related to its selective effect on client proteins of Hsp90. HDN-1 destabilized AML1-ETO and preserved C/EBPβ at the same time, thereby induced a total increase in C/EBPβ levels because of AML1-ETO negative regulation to C/EBPβ expression. Neither HDN-1 nor 17-AAG (an N-terminal inhibitor of Hsp90) led to the differentiation of NB4 cells because mutant PML-RARα was not affected as a client protein of Hsp90; thus, no additional expression of C/EBPβ was induced. 17-AAG did not affect the differentiation of HL-60 cells due to decreased AML1-ETO and C/EBPβ levels. These results indicate that HDN-1 drives cell differentiation toward apoptosis depending on its selective influence on client proteins of Hsp90, establishing the relationship between differentiation and apoptosis and uncovering the mechanism of HDN-1 in promyelocytic leukemia cell differentiation. Moreover, HDN-1 is very promising for the development of anticancer agents with the induction of differentiation.
Inhibiting the myofibroblast differentiation of lung-resident mesenchymal stem cells (LR-MSCs) is a promising yet challenging approach for pulmonary fibrosis (PF) therapy. Here, micelles formed by a graft copolymer of multiple PEGs modified branched polyethylenimine are used for delivering runt-related transcription factor-1 (RUNX1) small interfering RNA (siRNA) (siRUNX1) to the lung, aiming to inhibit the myofibroblast differentiation of LR-MSCs. LR-MSC targeting is achieved by functionalizing the micelle surface with an anti-stem-cell antigen-1 antibody fragment (Fab'). Consequently, therapeutic benefits are obtained by successful suppression of myofibroblast differentiation of LR-MSCs in bleomycin-induced PF model mice treated with siRUNX1-loaded micelles. Furthermore, an excellent synergistic effect of PF therapy is achieved for this micelle system loaded siRUNX1 and glioma-associated oncogene homolog-1 (Gli1) small interfering RNA (siGli1), a traditional anti-PF siRNA of glioma-associated oncogene homolog-1. Hence, this work not only provides RUNX1 as a novel PF therapeutic target, but also as a promising dual siRNA-loaded nanocarrier system for the therapy of PF.
RUNX3, a transcription factor, has been implicated as a tumor suppressor in various cancers, including hematological malignancies; however, recent studies revealed an oncogenic function of RUNX3 in the pathogenesis of myeloid malignancies, such as myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. In contrast to the high frequency of mutations in the RUNX1 gene, deletion of and loss-of-function mutations in RUNX3 are rarely detected in patients with hematopoietic malignancies. Although RUNX3 is expressed in normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, its expression decreases with aging in humans. The loss of Runx3 did not result in the development of lethal hematological diseases in mice despite the expansion of myeloid cells. Therefore, RUNX3 does not appear to initiate the transformation of normal hematopoietic stem cells. However, the overexpression of RUNX3 inhibits the expression and transcriptional function of the RUNX1 gene, but activates the expression of key oncogenic pathways, such as MYC, resulting in the transformation of premalignant stem cells harboring a driver genetic mutation. We herein discuss the mechanisms by which RUNX3 is activated and how RUNX3 exerts oncogenic effects on the cellular function of and transcriptional program in premalignant stem cells to drive myeloid transformation.
Proprioceptive neurons (PNs) are essential for the proper execution of all our movements by providing muscle sensory feedback to the central motor network. Here, using deep single cell RNAseq of adult PNs coupled with virus and genetic tracings, we molecularly identify three main types of PNs (Ia, Ib and II) and find that they segregate into eight distinct subgroups. Our data unveil a highly sophisticated organization of PNs into discrete sensory input channels with distinct spatial distribution, innervation patterns and molecular profiles. Altogether, these features contribute to finely regulate proprioception during complex motor behavior. Moreover, while Ib- and II-PN subtypes are specified around birth, Ia-PN subtypes diversify later in life along with increased motor activity. We also show Ia-PNs plasticity following exercise training, suggesting Ia-PNs are important players in adaptive proprioceptive function in adult mice.
OBJECTIVE: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is characterized by widespread fibrosis and vascular complications. This study was undertaken to examine the chromatin landscape and transcription factor footprints in SSc, using an assay for genome-wide chromatin accessibility.METHODS: Dermal endothelial cells (ECs) and fibroblasts were isolated from healthy controls and patients with diffuse cutaneous SSc (dcSSc). Assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with sequencing (ATAC-seq) was performed to assess genome-wide chromatin accessibility at a read depth of ~150 million reads per sample. Transcription factor footprinting and motif binding analysis were performed, followed by functional experiments.RESULTS: Chromatin accessibility was significantly reduced in dcSSc patients compared to healthy controls. Differentially accessible chromatin loci were enriched in pathways and gene ontologies involved in the nervous system, cell membrane projections and cilia motility, nuclear and steroid receptors, and nitric oxide. In addition, chromatin binding of transcription factors SNAI2, ETV2, and ELF1 was significantly increased in dcSSc ECs, while recruitment of RUNX1 and RUNX2 was enriched in dcSSc fibroblasts. We found significant down-regulation of the neuronal gene NRXN1 and up-regulation of SNAI2 and ETV2 in dcSSc ECs. In dcSSc fibroblasts, down-regulation of the neuronal gene ENTPD1 and up-regulation of RUNX2 were confirmed. Further functional analysis revealed that ETV2 and NRXN1 dysregulation affected angiogenesis in ECs, while ENTPD1 enhanced profibrotic properties in dcSSc fibroblasts.CONCLUSION: Our data identify the chromatin blueprint of dcSSc, and suggest that neuronal-related characteristics of SSc ECs and fibroblasts could be a culprit for dysregulated angiogenesis and enhanced fibrosis. Targeting the key pathways and transcription factors identified might present novel therapeutic approaches in SSc.
Pediatric therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (tMN) occur in children after exposure to cytotoxic therapy and have a dismal prognosis. The somatic and germline genomic alterations that drive these myeloid neoplasms in children and how they arise have yet to be comprehensively described. We use whole exome, whole genome, and/or RNA sequencing to characterize the genomic profile of 84 pediatric tMN cases (tMDS: n = 28, tAML: n = 56). Our data show that Ras/MAPK pathway mutations, alterations in RUNX1 or TP53, and KMT2A rearrangements are frequent somatic drivers, and we identify cases with aberrant MECOM expression secondary to enhancer hijacking. Unlike adults with tMN, we find no evidence of pre-existing minor tMN clones (including those with TP53 mutations), but rather the majority of cases are unrelated clones arising as a consequence of cytotoxic therapy. These studies also uncover rare cases of lineage switch disease rather than true secondary neoplasms.
CPX-351 is a liposomal formulation of cytarabine and daunorubicin approved for the treatment of adults with newly diagnosed, therapy-related acute myeloid leukemia (t-AML) or AML with myelodysplasia-related changes (MRC-AML). We retrospectively analyzed the efficacy and safety of CPX-351 in a real-world setting in 103 patients from 12 French centers, including the evaluation of molecular abnormalities at baseline and minimal residual disease (MRD) in responding patients, compared with a historical data set from Bordeaux-Toulouse DATAML registry. A favorable safety profile was observed, with a low frequency of alopecia (11%) and gastrointestinal toxicity (50%). The overall response rate after induction was 59%, and MRD <10-3 was achieved in 57% of complete response (CR)/CR with incomplete hematological recovery (CRi) patients. Only the presence of mutated TP53 (P = .02) or PTPN11 (P = .004) predicted lower response in multivariate analysis. Interestingly, high-risk molecular prognosis subgroups defined by 2017 European LeukemiaNet risk stratification, including ASXL1 and RUNX1 mutations, were not associated with a significantly lower response rate using CPX-351. With a median follow-up of 8.6 months, median overall survival (OS) was 16.1 months. Thirty-six patients underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation with a significantly longer median OS compared with nontransplanted patients (P < .001). In multivariate analyses, only spliceosome mutations were associated with better OS (P = .04). In comparison with intensive chemotherapy, there was no difference in OS for patients <60 years. These data confirm the efficacy and safety of CPX-351 in high-risk AML (t-AML and MRC-AML) in a real-life setting. CPX-351 is a treatment of choice for patients aged ≥60 years.
Patients with familial platelet disorder with a predisposition to myeloid malignancy (FPDMM) harbor germline monoallelic mutations in a key hematopoietic transcription factor, RUNX-1. Previous studies of FPDMM have focused on megakaryocyte (Mk) differentiation and platelet production and signaling. However, the effects of RUNX-1 haploinsufficiency on hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) and subsequent megakaryopoiesis remains incomplete. We studied induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived HPCs (iHPCs) and Mks (iMks) from both patient-derived lines and a wild-type (WT) line modified to be RUNX-1 haploinsufficient (RUNX-1+/-), each compared with their isogenic WT control. All RUNX-1+/- lines showed decreased iMk yield and depletion of an Mk-biased iHPC subpopulation. To investigate global and local gene expression changes underlying this iHPC shift, single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on sorted FPDMM and control iHPCs. We defined several cell subpopulations in the Mk-biased iHPCs. Analyses of gene sets upregulated in FPDMM iHPCs indicated enrichment for response to stress, regulation of signal transduction, and immune signaling-related gene sets. Immunoblot analyses in FPDMM iMks were consistent with these findings, but also identified augmented baseline c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation, known to be activated by transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and cellular stressors. These findings were confirmed in adult human CD34+-derived stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) transduced with lentiviral RUNX1 short hairpin RNA to mimic RUNX-1+/-. In both iHPCs and CD34+-derived HSPCs, targeted inhibitors of JNK and TGF-β1 pathways corrected the megakaryopoietic defect. We propose that such intervention may correct the thrombocytopenia in patients with FPDMM.
The aim of the study was the identification of constitutional RUNX1 mutations among AML patients. The study group included 100 patients of Polish origin, diagnosed with de novo AML. 14 out of 100 AML patients had together 17 RUNX1 mutations, three of which were found to be germline changes. The difference in germline mutation frequency between study and control groups was not statistically significant (p = 0.193), but the odds ratio was 7.215. In all patients with germline mutations, chromosome 7 aberrations were found. The difference in the frequency of chromosome 7 aberrations between the group of patients with and without germline mutations was statistically significant (p = 0.008, OR = 73.00). We showed a higher frequency of germline mutations of RUNX1 in AML patients than in the control group, which confirms the role of these mutations in the development of AML, and an association of germline mutations with aberrations of chromosome 7.
RUNX1 familial platelet disorder (RUNX1-FPD) is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by a monoallelic mutation of RUNX1, initially resulting in approximately half-normal RUNX1 activity. Clinical features include thrombocytopenia, platelet functional defects, and a predisposition to leukemia. RUNX1 is rapidly degraded through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Moreover, it may autoregulate its expression. A predicted kinetic property of autoregulatory circuits is that transient perturbations of steady-state levels result in continued maintenance of expression at adjusted levels, even after inhibitors of degradation or inducers of transcription are withdrawn, suggesting that transient inhibition of RUNX1 degradation may have prolonged effects. We hypothesized that pharmacological inhibition of RUNX1 protein degradation could normalize RUNX1 protein levels, restore the number of platelets and their function, and potentially delay or prevent malignant transformation. In this study, we evaluated cell lines, induced pluripotent stem cells derived from patients with RUNX1-FPD, RUNX1-FPD primary bone marrow cells, and acute myeloid leukemia blood cells from patients with RUNX1 mutations. The results showed that, in some circumstances, transient expression of exogenous RUNX1 or inhibition of steps leading to RUNX1 ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation restored RUNX1 levels, thereby advancing megakaryocytic differentiation in vitro. Thus, drugs retarding RUNX1 proteolytic degradation may represent a therapeutic avenue for treating bleeding complications and preventing leukemia in RUNX1-FPD.
A 15-year-old male was diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia with t(6;9)(p23;q34), a chimeric DEK-NUP214 fusion gene. He underwent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (allo-BMT) from an unrelated volunteer donor at first molecular remission. Approximately 5 years after allo-BMT, multiple bone marrow aspirations showed increased blasts to 63%, which were positive for myeloperoxidase, CD13, CD33, CD56, and CD34. Surprisingly, t(8;21)(q22;q22.1), a chimeric RUNX1-RUNX1T1 (not DEK-NUP214) fusion gene, was detected with full donor chimerism. To our best knowledge, this is the first case of a volunteer unrelated donor cell-derived acute myeloid leukemia harboring a chimeric RUNX1-RUNX1T1 fusion gene.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology,Aerospace Center Hospital, Beijing 100049, China.(2)Department of Pathology,Aerospace Center Hospital, Beijing 100049, China.(3)Acornmed Biotechnology, Co,Ltd. Beijing 100176, China.(4)Department of Medical Laboratory, Beijing Boren Hospital, Beijing 100070, China.(5)Department of Hematology,Aerospace Center Hospital, Beijing 100049, China,E-mail: wangjingbo@asch.net.cn.
Down syndrome is associated with genome-wide perturbation of gene expression, which may be mediated by epigenetic changes. We perform an epigenome-wide association study on neonatal bloodspots comparing 196 newborns with Down syndrome and 439 newborns without Down syndrome, adjusting for cell-type heterogeneity, which identifies 652 epigenome-wide significant CpGs (P < 7.67 × 10-8) and 1,052 differentially methylated regions. Differential methylation at promoter/enhancer regions correlates with gene expression changes in Down syndrome versus non-Down syndrome fetal liver hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (P < 0.0001). The top two differentially methylated regions overlap RUNX1 and FLI1, both important regulators of megakaryopoiesis and hematopoietic development, with significant hypermethylation at promoter regions of these two genes. Excluding Down syndrome newborns harboring preleukemic GATA1 mutations (N = 30), identified by targeted sequencing, has minimal impact on the epigenome-wide association study results. Down syndrome has profound, genome-wide effects on DNA methylation in hematopoietic cells in early life, which may contribute to the high frequency of hematological problems, including leukemia, in children with Down syndrome.
Comment on    Mol Cell. 2021 Feb 4;81(3):530-545.e5.
Background Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is an invasive cancer that results from the malignant conversion and rapid replication of white blood cells and hematopoietic stem cells that supply multiple lymphocytes. Harmful gene mutations occur in more than two-thirds of patients with ALL; however, these mutations have not been extensively identified in Saudi Arabia. Aim The aim of this study was to identify the types of mutations in patients with ALL at King Abdulaziz University Hospital (KAUH) in Jeddah. In addition, we identified the most common mutations. Methods A retrospective study was performed on patients who were diagnosed with ALL from January 2009 to January 2019 at the Department of Hematology at KAUH. Our target population comprised patients diagnosed with ALL, including all age groups and both sexes. Patients were excluded if they had Down syndrome or central nervous system involvement, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, or neurofibromatosis. Results Of the 130 patients with ALL, 101 (77.77%) were children. The number of men (n=81) was substantially more than that of women (n=49). The data showed that 13.1% of our patients had mutations, and they occurred more frequently in patients with B-cell lymphoblastic ALL (B-ALL) than in those with T-cell lymphoblastic ALL (T-ALL). Several mutations, including BCR-ABL and ETV6/RUNX1, were more common in B-ALL, whereas the MLL-F0X04mutation was more commonly observed in T-ALL. There was a significant difference between the types of ALL and the genes involved (p=0.039). One female patient had translocation t(X;11)(q26;q23) (MLL-F0X04), which is a rare mutation. Conclusion In summary, 13.1% of our study population had mutations. The BCR-ABL fusion gene was the most frequent mutation in patients at KAUH, and it occurred at a higher rate in B-ALL. Moreover, we detected other mutations, such as ETV6/RUNX1 and MLL-F0X04. The gene mutations were significantly different between B-ALL and T-ALL.
Comment in    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Mar 16;118(11):
Roundabout guidance receptor proteins are crucial components of the SLIT/ROBO signaling pathway. This pathway is important for the nervous system and in embryonic development. Recently, increasing evidence has shown that roundabout guidance receptor proteins and the SLIT/ROBO signaling pathway also participate in tumorigenesis. Here, by analyzing transcriptome data from the TCGA and GEO databases, we found that ROBO3 is highly expressed in non-M3 acute myeloid leukemia. High ROBO3 expression was associated with increased age at diagnosis and poorer risk classification (both P < 0.01). Patients with high ROBO3 expression had higher rates of TP53 and RUNX1 mutations (both P < 0.05). Significantly worse overall survival and event-free survival were observed in high ROBO3 expression patients compared with low ROBO3 expression patients (OS: P = 0.004; EFS: P= 0.012). High ROBO3 expression was also associated with poorer overall survival and event-free survival in a subgroup of patients who received intensive chemotherapy (OS: P = 0.024; EFS: P = 0.040). Moreover, multivariate analysis indicated that high ROBO3 expression was an independent risk factor for poor overall survival in non-M3 acute myeloid leukemia patients who are younger than 60 and received intensive chemotherapy during remission induction. Bioinformatics analysis by Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes and Gene Ontology revealed that high ROBO3 expression significantly altered cell adhesion and extracellular matrix-related pathways (adjusted P < 0.05). Taken together, the data demonstrate that ROBO3 is upregulated in non-M3 acute myeloid leukemia and may be a potent biomarker of inferior prognosis.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with the t(8;21)(q22;q22) chromosomal translocation is among the most common subtypes of AML and produces the AML1-ETO (RUNX1-ETO, RUNX1-RUNX1T1) oncogenic fusion gene. AML1-ETO functions as an aberrant transcription factor which plays a key role in blocking normal hematopoiesis. Thus, the expression of AML1-ETO is critical to t(8;21) AML leukemogenesis and maintenance. Post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression is often mediated through interactions between trans-factors and cis-elements within transcript 3'-untranslated regions (UTR). AML1-ETO uses the 3'UTR of the ETO gene, which is not normally expressed in hematopoietic cells. Therefore, the mechanisms regulating AML1-ETO expression via the 3'UTR are attractive therapeutic targets.METHODS: We used RNA-sequencing of t(8;21) patients and cell lines to examine the 3'UTR isoforms used by AML1-ETO transcripts. Using luciferase assay approaches, we test the relative contribution of 3'UTR cis elements to AML1-ETO expression. We further use let-7b microRNA mimics and anti-let-7b sponges for functional studies of t(8;21) AML cell lines.RESULTS: In this study, we examine the regulation of AML1-ETO via the 3'UTR. We demonstrate that AML1-ETO transcripts primarily use a 3.7 kb isoform of the ETO 3'UTR in both t(8;21) patients and cell lines. We identify a negative regulatory element within the AML1-ETO 3'UTR. We further demonstrate that the let-7b microRNA directly represses AML1-ETO through this site. Finally, we find that let-7b inhibits the proliferation of t(8;21) AML cell lines, rescues expression of AML1-ETO target genes, and promotes differentiation.CONCLUSIONS: AML1-ETO is post-transcriptionally regulated by let-7b, which contributes to the leukemic phenotype of t(8;21) AML and may be important for t(8;21) leukemogenesis and maintenance.
Comment in    Br J Haematol. 2021 Mar;192(5):800-802.
Dysregulated gene expression contributes to most prevalent features in human cancers. Here, we show that most subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) depend on the aberrant assembly of MYB transcriptional co-activator complex. By rapid and selective peptidomimetic interference with the binding of CBP/P300 to MYB, but not CREB or MLL1, we find that the leukemic functions of MYB are mediated by CBP/P300 co-activation of a distinct set of transcription factor complexes. These MYB complexes assemble aberrantly with LYL1, E2A, C/EBP family members, LMO2, and SATB1. They are organized convergently in genetically diverse subtypes of AML and are at least in part associated with inappropriate transcription factor co-expression. Peptidomimetic remodeling of oncogenic MYB complexes is accompanied by specific proteolysis and dynamic redistribution of CBP/P300 with alternative transcription factors such as RUNX1 to induce myeloid differentiation and apoptosis. Thus, aberrant assembly and sequestration of MYB:CBP/P300 complexes provide a unifying mechanism of oncogenic gene expression in AML. This work establishes a compelling strategy for their pharmacologic reprogramming and therapeutic targeting for diverse leukemias and possibly other human cancers caused by dysregulated gene control.
INTRODUCTION: Flow cytometric immunophenotyping (FCI) plays a major role in diagnosing hematologic malignancies. In patients diagnosed with precursor B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), expression of certain non-lineage/cross lineage antigens is of prognostic and cytogenetic relevance. There is a paucity of studies that have comprehensively analyzed the clinical and laboratory profiles of B-ALL patients showing aberrant T/natural killer (NK) cell antigen expression.MATERIALS AND METHODS: This is a prospective study where 152 consecutive B-ALL patients were analyzed for aberrant expression of T/NK cell antigens (CD1a, CD5, CD4, CD7, CD8 and CD56) by FCI. The clinical and laboratory profile of these T/NK-cell antigen-expressing B-ALL patients was statistically analyzed against conventional B-ALL patients.RESULTS: In our B-ALL cohort, CD5, CD7 and CD56 expression were observed in one, six and nine patients, respectively. CD56-expressing B-ALL patients were predominantly children (89%) and presented as standard clinical risk (p=0.010) disease with frequent ETV6-RUNX1 fusion (p=0.021) positivity. On the contrary, CD7-expressing B-ALL patients were adolescent-young adult/adult-age skewed (83%) and had an adverse cytogenetic profile (p=0.001), especially for the frequent presence of BCR-ABL1 fusion (p=0.004) and KMT2A rearrangement (p=0.045). CD7-expressing B-ALL patients had inferior event-free survival (p=0.040) than their CD56-expressing counterparts, but there was no significant difference in the overall survival (p=0.317).CONCLUSION: In comparison to conventional B-ALL patients, there are significant differences in the age, cytogenetic profile and event-free survival of T/NK-cell antigen-expressing B-ALL patients.
Minimal residual disease (MRD) levels monitored by polymerase chain reaction are associated with outcomes in acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1-RUNX1T1. The objectives of our study were to quantitatively compare the predictive value of MRD reduction and absolute copies and assess the influence of other prognostic factors on MRD. A total of 224 consecutive patients with RUNX1-RUNX1T1 aged ≤55 years were included in the MRD study. Patients received different induction regimens including conventional- or intermediate-dose cytarabine plus low-dose daunorubicin and omacetaxine mepesuccinate or daunorubicin at 60 mg/m2/day on days 1-3. As continuous variables, both MRD reduction and absolute MRD level were significantly associated with cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR; hazard ratio [HR] = 1.610, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.370-1.890, p < 0.001, and HR = 1.170, 95% CI: 1.120-1.230, p < 0.001, respectively). For the CIR, the area under the curves (AUCs) of MRD reduction and absolute MRD level after the first consolidation chemotherapy were 0.629 and 0.629, respectively. Intermediate-dose cytarabine induction (HR = 0.494; p = 0.039 for CIR, HR, 0.451; p = 0.014 for RFS, and HR, 0.262; p = 0.006 for OS) remained significantly associated with outcomes after adjusting for MRD reduction after the first consolidation therapy (HR = 1.456, p < 0.001, for CIR; HR = 1.467, p = 0.001, for relapse-free survival; and HR = 1.468, p = 0.014, for overall survival) in multivariate analyses. In conclusion, the prognostic significance of MRD after the first consolidation therapy was influenced by the induction regimen in acute myeloid leukemia with RUNX1-RUNX1T1.
OVERVIEW: Systemic mastocytosis (SM) results from a clonal proliferation of abnormal mast cells (MC) in extra-cutaneous organs.DIAGNOSIS: The major criterion is presence of multifocal clusters of spindled MC in the bone marrow. Minor diagnostic criteria include elevated serum tryptase level, abnormal MC CD25 expression, and presence of KITD816V mutation.RISK STRATIFICATION: Establishing SM subtype as per the World Health Organization classification system is an important first step. Broadly, patients either have indolent/smoldering SM (ISM/SSM) or advanced SM, the latter includes aggressive SM (ASM), SM with associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN), and mast cell leukemia (MCL). Identification of poor-risk mutations (ie, ASXL1, RUNX1, SRSF2, NRAS) further refines the risk stratification. Recently, clinical and hybrid clinical-molecular risk models have been developed to more accurately assign prognosis in SM patients.MANAGEMENT: Treatment goals for ISM patients are primarily directed towards anaphylaxis prevention/symptom control/osteoporosis treatment. Patients with advanced SM frequently need MC cytoreductive therapy to ameliorate disease-related organ dysfunction. High response rates have been seen with small-molecule inhibitors that target mutant-KIT, including midostaurin (Food and Drug Administration approved) or avapritinib (investigational). Other options for MC cytoreduction include cladribine or interferon-α, although head-to-head comparisons are lacking. Treatment of SM-AHN primarily targets the AHN component, particularly if an aggressive disease such as acute myeloid leukemia is present. Allogeneic stem cell transplant can be considered in such patients, or in those with relapsed/refractory advanced SM. Imatinib has a limited therapeutic role in SM; effective cytoreduction is limited to those with imatinib-sensitive KIT mutations.
Despite the improvements in prognostication of the revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R) in myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), there remain a portion of patients with lower risk (low/intermediate risk, LR) but poor prognostics. This study aimed to evaluate the relative contribution of mutational status when added to the IPSS-R, for estimating overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with LR-MDS. We retrospectively analyzed clinical and laboratory variables of 328 patients diagnosed with MDS according to the FAB criteria. Twenty-nine-gene NGS assay was applied to bone marrow samples obtained at diagnosis. 233 (71.04%) patients were classified as LR-MDS. Univariate analysis showed association between inferior outcome (OS and PFS) and presence of JAK2 (p = 0.0177, p = 0.0002), RUNX1 (p = 0.0250, p = 0.0387), and U2AF1 (p = 0.0227, p = 0.7995) mutations. Multivariable survival analysis revealed JAK2 (p < 0.0001) and RUNX1 (p = 0.0215) mutations were independently prognostic for PFS in LR-MDS. Interestingly, bone marrow blast >1.5% could further predict disease progression of patients with LR-MDS (HR 8.06, 95%CI 2.95-22.04, p < 0.0001). Incorporation of JAK2, RUNX1 mutation and bone marrow blast in the IPSS-R can improve risk stratification in patients with LR-MDS. In summary, our result provided new risk factors for LR-MDS prognostics to identify candidates for early therapeutic intervention.
BACKGROUND: Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL) are two myeloproliferative neoplasms with mutually exclusive diagnostic criteria. A hallmark of CML is the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph), which results in a BCR-ABL1 fusion gene and constitutive tyrosine kinase activity. CNL is a Ph-negative neoplasm and is defined in part by the presence of CSF3R mutations, which drive constative JAK/STAT signaling.CASE PRESENTATION: Here, we report the exceedingly rare co-occurrence of two granulocytic myeloproliferative neoplasms in a 69-year old male patient. After an initial diagnosis of chronic myeloid leukemia, the patient's clinical course was shaped by hematologic toxicity, the emergence of treatment-resistant BCR-ABL1 clones, and the expansion of a CSF3R-mutant clone without ABL1 mutations under selective pressure from tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The emergence of the CSF3R-mutant, neutrophilic clone led to the diagnosis of CNL as a second myeloproliferative neoplasm in the same patient.CONCLUSIONS: This is the first reported case of CNL arising subsequent to CML, which occurred under selective pressure from targeted therapy in a patient with complex clonal architecture. Patients with such molecularly complex disease may ultimately benefit from combination therapy that targets multiple oncogenic pathways.
This study explores the hypothesis that genetic differences related to an ethnic factor may underlie differences in phenotypic expression of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). First, to identify clear ethnic differences, we systematically compared the epidemiology, and the clinical, biological and genetic characteristics of MDS between Asian and Western countries over the last 20 years. Asian MDS cases show a 2- to 4-fold lower incidence and a 10-year younger age of onset compared to the Western cases. A higher proportion of Western MDS patients fall into the very low- and low-risk categories while the intermediate, high and very high-risk groups are more represented in Asian MDS patients according to the Revised International Prognostic Scoring System. Next, we investigated whether differences in prognostic risk scores could find their origin in differential cytogenetic profiles. We found that 5q deletion (del(5q)) aberrations and mutations in TET2, SF3B1, SRSF2 and IDH1/2 are more frequently reported in Western MDS patients while trisomy 8, del(20q), U2AF1 and ETV6 mutations are more frequent in Asian MDS patients. Treatment approaches differ between Western and Asian countries owing to the above discrepancies, but the overall survival rate within each prognostic group is similar for Western and Asian MDS patients. Altogether, our study highlights greater risk MDS in Asians supported by their cytogenetic profile.
Severe congenital neutropenia (SCN) is a rare blood disorder characterised by abnormally low levels of circulating neutrophils. The most common recurrent mutations that cause SCN involve neutrophil elastase (ELANE). The treatment of choice for SCN is the administration of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), which increases the neutrophil number and improves the survival and quality of life. Long-term survival is however linked to the development of myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukemia (MDS/AML). About 70% of MDS/AML patients acquire nonsense mutations affecting the cytoplasmic domain of CSF3R (the G-CSF receptor). About 70% of SCN patients with AML harbour additional mutations in RUNX1. We hypothesised that this coding region of CSF3R constitutes a hotspot vulnerable to mutations resulting from excessive oxidative stress or endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. We used the murine Ba/F3 cell line to measure the effect of induced oxidative or ER stress on the mutation rate in our hypothesised hotspot of the exogenous human CSF3R, the corresponding region in the endogenous Csf3r, and Runx1. Ba/F3 cells transduced with the cDNA for partial C-terminal of CSF3R fused in-frame with a green fluorescent protein (GFP) tag were subjected to stress-inducing treatment for 30 days (~51 doubling times). The amplicon-based targeted deep sequencing data for days 15 and 30 samples show that although there was increased mutagenesis observed in all the three genes of interest (partial CSF3R, Csf3r and Runx1), there were more mutations in the GFP region compared with the partial CSF3R region. Our findings also indicate that there is no correlation between the stress-inducing chemical treatments and mutagenesis in Ba/F3 cells. Our data suggest that oxidative or ER stress induction does not promote genomic instability, affecting partial C-terminal of the transduced CSF3R, the endogenous Csf3R and the endogenous Runx1 in Ba/F3 cells that could account for these targets to being mutational hotspots. We conclude that other mechanisms to acquire mutations of CSF3R that help drive the evolution of SCN to MDS/AML.
BACKGROUND: Several risk stratification models have been proposed in recent years for systemic mastocytosis but have not been directly compared. Here we designed and validated a risk stratification model for progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in systemic mastocytosis on the basis of all currently available prognostic factors, and compared its predictive capacity for patient outcome with that of other risk scores.METHODS: We did a retrospective prognostic modelling study based on patients diagnosed with systemic mastocytosis between March 1, 1983, and Oct 11, 2019. In a discovery cohort of 422 patients from centres of the Spanish Network on Mastocytosis (REMA), we evaluated previously identified, independent prognostic features for prognostic effect on PFS and OS by multivariable analysis, and designed a global prognostic score for mastocytosis (GPSM) aimed at predicting PFS (GPSM-PFS) and OS (GPSM-OS) by including only those variables that showed independent prognostic value (p<0·05). The GPSM scores were validated in an independent cohort of 853 patients from centres in Europe and the USA, and compared with pre-existing risk models in the total patient series (n=1275), with use of Harrells' concordance index (C-index) as a readout of the ability of each model to risk-stratify patients according to survival outcomes.FINDINGS: Our GPSM-PFS and GPSM-OS models were based on unique combinations of independent prognostic factors for PFS (platelet count ≤100 × 109 cells per L, serum β2-microglobulin ≥2·5 μg/mL, and serum baseline tryptase ≥125 μg/L) and OS (haemoglobin ≤110 g/L, serum alkaline phosphatase ≥140 IU/L, and at least one mutation in SRSF2, ASXL1, RUNX1, or DNMT3A). The models showed clear discrimination between low-risk and high-risk patients in terms of worse PFS and OS prognoses in the discovery and validation cohorts, and further discrimination of intermediate-risk patients. The GPSM-PFS score was an accurate predictor of PFS in systemic mastocytosis (C-index 0·90 [95% CI 0·87-0·93], vs values ranging from 0·85 to 0·88 for pre-existing models), particularly in non-advanced systemic mastocytosis (C-index 0·85 [0·76-0·92], within the range for pre-existing models of 0·80 to 0·93). Additionally, the GPSM-OS score was able to accurately predict OS in the entire cohort (C-index 0·92 [0·89-0·94], vs 0·67 to 0·90 for pre-existing models), and showed some capacity to predict OS in advanced systemic mastocytosis (C-index 0·72 [0·66-0·78], vs 0·64 to 0·73 for pre-existing models).INTERPRETATION: All evaluated risk classifications predicted survival outcomes in systemic mastocytosis. The REMA-PFS and GPSM-PFS models for PFS, and the International Prognostic Scoring System for advanced systemic mastocytosis and GPSM-OS model for OS emerged as the most accurate models, indicating that robust prognostication might be prospectively achieved on the basis of biomarkers that are accessible in diagnostic laboratories worldwide.FUNDING: Carlos III Health Institute, European Regional Development Fund, Spanish Association of Mastocytosis and Related Diseases, Rare Diseases Strategy of the Spanish National Health System, Junta of Castile and León, Charles and Ann Johnson Foundation, Stanford Cancer Institute Innovation Fund, Austrian Science Fund.
AIMS: LncRNA RUNX1-IT1 has been characterized as a tumor suppressive lncRNA in several cancers, while its role in glioblastoma (GBM) is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the potential involvement of RUNX1-IT1 in GBM.METHODS: Expression of RUNX1-IT1 in GBM tissues and paired non-tumor tissues was determined by RT-qPCR. The interaction between RUNX1-IT1 and miR-195 was analyzed by dual luciferase activity assay. Overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 and miR-195 was achieved in GBM cells to explore the interaction between them. The effects of RUNX1-IT1 and miR-195 overexpression on the expression of cyclin D1 were analyzed by RT-qPCR and Western blot. Cell proliferation was analyzed by CCK-8 assay.RESULTS: RUNX1-IT1 was upregulated in GBM. RUNX1-IT1 and miR-195 interacted with each other, but failed to regulate the expression of each other. Overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 resulted in the upregulation of cyclin D1, and also reduced the effects of miR-195 overexpression on cyclin D1 expression. RUNX1-IT1 and cyclin overexpression increased cell proliferation, while miR-195 overexpression decreased cell proliferation. In addition, RUNX1-IT1 overexpression reduced the effects of miR-195 overexpression on cell proliferation.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX1-IT1 may sponge miR-195 to upregulate cyclin D1, thereby increasing the proliferation of glioblastoma cells.
Erratum in    Nature. 2021 Apr;592(7856):E29.
OBJECTIVES: The study aims to understand geneome diversiﬁcation and complexity that developed in Acute myeloid leukemia (AML).METHODS: Next-generation sequencing (NGS) was used to identify the genetic proﬁles of 22 genes relevant to hematological malignancy in 204 patients with de novo non-M3 AML.RESULTS: At time of initial diagnosis, at least one mutation was identified in 80.9% of patients (165/204). The most commonly mutated gene was NPM1 (22.1%), followed by ASXL1 (18.1%), TET2 (18.1%), IDH2 (15.7%), CEBPA (14.7%), FLT3-ITD (13.2%) and DNMT3A (11.8%). Mutations landscape analysis indicated several patterns of co-occurring and mutual exclusive gene mutations. Some correlation was observed between gene mutations and clinicohematological features. Multivariate analysis showed that age >60 years, karyotypes, IDH2 and KIT mutations were the independent unfavorable prognostic factors for OS; NPM1-mut/ FLT3-ITD-wt was independently correlated with prolonged OS; whereas the independent poor risk factors for RFS were karyotypes, high WBC and RUNX1 mutation. According to different genotype demonstrated by multivariate analysis, 163 patients with intermediate-risk cytogenetics were classified into three subgroups: patients with NPM1-mut/ FLT3-ITD-wt or biallelic CEBPA mutation as favorable risk, patients with KIT, IDH2, TP53 or NRAS mutations as unfavorable risk, and the remaining was the intermediate risk. We also obtain information of clonal evolution during leukemia progression by observing five patients who underwent repeat NGS at relapse in our cohort.CONCLUSION: NGS techniques is a useful tool for discovering related gene mutations and clonal evolution in AML genomes, leading to novel targeted therapeutic approaches that could improve patients outcomes.
Objectives: The 8p11 myeloproliferative syndrome (EMS) is an extremely rare, generally aggressive haematologic malignancies. This study provided the clinical outcomes and therapeutic strategies for EMS patients confirmed with CEP110-FGFR1 fusion. Methods: We report here a case of translocation (8;9) (p12;q33)/CEP110-FGFR1 who received allo-HSCT and achieved molecular remission. We searched the PubMed database for relevant medical literatures published between 1992 and 2018. We generalized the laboratory results, clinical features, therapeutic outcomes for EMS with confirmed CEP110-FGFR1 fusion. Results: We identified 16 EMS cases with CEP110-FGFR1 fusions including our patient. The observed common syndrome features were characterized as follows: a male predominance, fatigue (35.7%), tonsil hypertrophy (41.7%), lymphadenopathy (53.8%), hepatosplenomegaly (54.5%). leukocytosis (greater than 20.0 × 109/L, 71.4%), coexisting of eosinophilia and monocytosis (93.3%), and frequent progression to acute leukaemia. High incidence of tonsil hypertrophy and monocytosis may be a feature of EMS with CEP110/FGFR1 fusions. The CR rate for EMS was 23.1%. One patient treated with highly selective FGFR kinase inhibitor, INCB054828, achieved complete molecular remission rapidly. Allo-HSCT was performed in 8 patients. The median survival time for those patients was 9.0 (95%CI 5.599-12.601) months, with a range between 5 and 27 months. Allogeneic HSCT could improve survival in selected patients. Conclusion: FGFR1 and RUNX1 may be potential therapeutic targets for clinical trials. More accumulation of cases is also needed to determine whether allo-HSCT could be an optimal approach.
The fusion oncogene RUNX1/RUNX1T1 encodes an aberrant transcription factor, which plays a key role in the initiation and maintenance of acute myeloid leukemia. Here we show that the RUNX1/RUNX1T1 oncogene is a regulator of alternative RNA splicing in leukemic cells. The comprehensive analysis of RUNX1/RUNX1T1-associated splicing events identifies two principal mechanisms that underlie the differential production of RNA isoforms: (i) RUNX1/RUNX1T1-mediated regulation of alternative transcription start site selection, and (ii) direct or indirect control of the expression of genes encoding splicing factors. The first mechanism leads to the expression of RNA isoforms with alternative structure of the 5'-UTR regions. The second mechanism generates alternative transcripts with new junctions between internal cassettes and constitutive exons. We also show that RUNX1/RUNX1T1-mediated differential splicing affects several functional groups of genes and produces proteins with unique conserved domain structures. In summary, this study reveals alternative splicing as an important component of transcriptome re-organization in leukemia by an aberrant transcriptional regulator.
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) has a continuously increasing incidence and imposes a heavy medical burden to individuals and society due to its high proportion of lymph node metastasis and recurrence in recent years. Circular RNAs, a class of noncoding RNAs, participate in the progression of many cancers, but the role of circRNAs in PTC is still rarely reported. In this study, circRNA deep sequencing was performed to identify differentially expressed circRNAs in PTC. CircRUNX1 was selected for its high expression in PTC, and circRUNX1 silencing was directly associated with the week potential for migration, invasion and proliferation of PTC in vivo and in vitro. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was further used to confirm the cytoplasmic localization of circRUNX1, indicating the possible function of circRUNX1 as a ceRNAs in PTC progression through miRNA binding. MiR-296-3p was then confirmed to be regulated by circRUNX1 and to target DDHD domain containing 2 (DDHD2) by luciferase reporter assays. The strong antitumor effect of miR-296-3p and the tumor-promoting effect of DDHD2 were further investigated in PTC, indicating that circRUNX1 modulates PTC progression through the miR-296-3p/DDHD2 pathway. Overall, circRUNX1 plays an oncogenic role in PTC and provides a potentially effective therapeutic strategy for PTC progression.
Runt domain-related (Runx) transcription factors are essential for early T cell development in mice from uncommitted to committed stages. Single and double Runx knockouts via Cas9 show that target genes responding to Runx activity are not solely controlled by the dominant factor, Runx1. Instead, Runx1 and Runx3 are coexpressed in single cells; bind to highly overlapping genomic sites; and have redundant, collaborative functions regulating genes pivotal for T cell development. Despite stable combined expression levels across pro-T cell development, Runx1 and Runx3 preferentially activate and repress genes that change expression dynamically during lineage commitment, mostly activating T-lineage genes and repressing multipotent progenitor genes. Furthermore, most Runx target genes are sensitive to Runx perturbation only at one stage and often respond to Runx more for expression transitions than for maintenance. Contributing to this highly stage-dependent gene regulation function, Runx1 and Runx3 extensively shift their binding sites during commitment. Functionally distinct Runx occupancy sites associated with stage-specific activation or repression are also distinguished by different patterns of partner factor cobinding. Finally, Runx occupancies change coordinately at numerous clustered sites around positively or negatively regulated targets during commitment. This multisite binding behavior may contribute to a developmental "ratchet" mechanism making commitment irreversible.
The prognostic significance of KIT mutations and optimal thresholds and time points of measurable residual disease (MRD) monitoring for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with RUNX1-RUNX1T1 remain controversial in the setting of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). We retrospectively evaluated 166 high-risk patients who underwent allogeneic (Allo-HSCT, n = 112) or autologous HSCT (Auto-HSCT, n = 54). D816V KIT mutation, a subtype of exon 17 mutations, was significantly associated with post-transplant relapse and poor survival, while other types of mutations in exons 17 and 8 were not associated with post-transplant relapse. Pre- and post-transplant RUNX1-RUNX1T1 MRD assessments were useful for predicting post-transplant relapse and poor survival with a higher sensitivity at later time points. Survival analysis for each stratified group by D816V KIT mutation and pre-transplant RUNX1-RUNX1T1 MRD status demonstrated that Auto-HSCT was superior to Allo-HSCT in MRD-negative patients without D816V KIT mutation, while Allo-HSCT was superior to Auto-HSCT in MRD-negative patients with D816V KIT mutation. Very poor outcomes of pre-transplant MRD-positive patients with D816V KIT mutation suggested that this group should be treated in clinical trials. Risk stratification by both D816V KIT mutation and RUNX1-RUNX1T1 MRD status will provide a platform for decision-making or risk-adapted therapeutic approaches.
Erratum in    PLoS Genet. 2022 Oct 31;18(10):e1010480.
Core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF-AML), including cases with KIT mutation, is currently defined as a low-risk AML. However, some patients have poor response to treatment, and the prognostic significance of KIT mutation is still controversial. This study aimed to explore the prognostic significance of different KIT mutation subtypes and minimal residual disease (MRD) in CBF-AML. We retrospectively evaluated continuous patients diagnosed with CBF-AML in our center between January 2014 and April 2019. Of the 215 patients, 147 (68.4%) and 68 (31.6%) patients were RUNX1-RUNX1T1- and CBFB-MYH11 positive, respectively. KIT mutations were found in 71 (33.0%) patients; of them, 38 (53.5%) had D816/D820 mutations. After excluding 10 patients who died or were lost to follow-up within a half year, 42.0% (n = 86) of the remaining 205 patients received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). An MRD > 0.1% at the end of two cycles of consolidation predicted relapse (P < 0.001). Multivariate analysis showed that D816 or D820 mutations and MRD > 0.1% at the end of two cycles of consolidation were independent adverse factors affecting relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS). Allo-HSCT could improve RFS (74.4% vs. 34.6%, P < 0.001) and OS (78.1% vs. 52.3%, P = 0.002). In conclusion, high-risk CBF-AML patients must be identified before treatment. D816/D820 mutation, MRD > 0.1% at the end of two cycles of consolidation chemotherapy predicted poor survivals, and allo-HSCT can improve the survival of properly identified patients.
Leukemia arises from blockage of the differentiation/maturation of hematopoietic progenitor cells at different stages with uncontrolled proliferation of leukemic cells. However, the signal pathways that block cell differentiation remain unclear. Herein we found that SUMOylation of the M2 isoform of pyruvate kinase (PKM2), a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme catalyzing the dephosphorylation of phosphoenolpyruvate to pyruvate, is prevalent in a variety of leukemic cell lines as well as primary samples from patients with leukemia through multiple-reaction monitoring based targeted mass spectrometry analysis. SUMOylation of PKM2 lysine 270 (K270) triggered conformation change from tetrameric to dimeric of PKM2, reduced PK activity, and led to nuclear translocation of PKM2. SUMO1 modification of PKM2 recruits and promotes degradation of RUNX1 via a SUMO-interacting motif, resulting in blockage of myeloid differentiation of NB4 and U937 leukemia cells. Replacement of wild type PKM2 with a SUMOylation-deficient mutant (K270R) abrogated the interaction with RUNX1, and the blockage of myeloid differentiation in vitro and in xenograft model. Our results establish PKM2 as an essential modulator of leukemia cell differentiation and a potential therapeutic target, which may offer synergistic effect with differentiation therapy in the treatment of leukemia.
Adult stem cell identity, plasticity, and homeostasis are precisely orchestrated by lineage-restricted epigenetic and transcriptional regulatory networks. Here, by integrating super-enhancer and chromatin accessibility landscapes, we delineate core transcription regulatory circuitries (CRCs) of limbal stem/progenitor cells (LSCs) and find that RUNX1 and SMAD3 are required for maintenance of corneal epithelial identity and homeostasis. RUNX1 or SMAD3 depletion inhibits PAX6 and induces LSCs to differentiate into epidermal-like epithelial cells. RUNX1, PAX6, and SMAD3 (RPS) interact with each other and synergistically establish a CRC to govern the lineage-specific cis-regulatory atlas. Moreover, RUNX1 shapes LSC chromatin architecture via modulating H3K27ac deposition. Disturbance of RPS cooperation results in cell identity switching and dysfunction of the corneal epithelium, which is strongly linked to various human corneal diseases. Our work highlights CRC TF cooperativity for establishment of stem cell identity and lineage commitment, and provides comprehensive regulatory principles for human stratified epithelial homeostasis and pathogenesis.
Neutrophils play an essential role in the innate immune defense system in vertebrates. During hematopoiesis, the full function of neutrophils involves maturation of granules and related enzymes. Yet, transcription regulators that promote neutrophil maturation remain largely undefined. Here, two hematopoiesis-defective zebrafish mutants, runx1w84x and c-mybhkz3, were used to investigate the in vivo roles of Runx1 in cooperation with c-Myb in regulating neutrophil maturation. Loss of runx1 impairs primitive neutrophil development. Additional regulation of c-myb+/- and c-myb-/- induces a more severe phenotypes suggesting a synergistic genetic interaction between c-myb and runx1 in neutrophil maturation. Further studies revealed that the two transcription factors act cooperatively to control neutrophil maturation processes via transactivating a series of neutrophil maturation-related genes. These data reveal the in vivo roles of Runx1 in regulating primitive neutrophil maturation while also indicating a novel genetic and molecular orchestration of Runx1 and c-Myb in myeloid cell development. The study will provide new evidence on the regulation of neutrophil maturation during hematopoiesis.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with t(9;22)(q34;q11), also known as AML with BCR-ABL1, is a rare, provisional entity in the WHO 2016 classification and is considered a high-risk disease according to the European LeukemiaNet 2017 risk stratification. We here present a retrospective, population-based study of this disease entity from the Swedish Acute Leukemia Registry. By strict clinical inclusion criteria we aimed to identify genetic markers further distinguishing AML with t(9;22) as a separate entity. Twenty-five patients were identified and next-generation sequencing using a 54-gene panel was performed in 21 cases. Interestingly, no mutations were found in NPM1, FLT3, or DNMT3A, three frequently mutated genes in AML. Instead, RUNX1 was the most commonly mutated gene, with aberrations present in 38% of the cases compared to around 10% in de novo AML. Additional mutations were identified in genes involved in RNA splicing (SRSF2, SF3B1) and chromatin regulation (ASXL1, STAG2, BCOR, BCORL1). Less frequently, mutations were found in IDH2, NRAS, TET2, and TP53. The mutational landscape exhibited a similar pattern as recently described in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in myeloid blast crisis (BC). Despite the concomitant presence of BCR-ABL1 and RUNX1 mutations in our cohort, both features of high-risk AML, the RUNX1-mutated cases showed a superior overall survival compared to RUNX1 wildtype cases. Our results suggest that the molecular characteristics of AML with t(9;22)/BCR-ABL1 and CML in myeloid BC are similar and do not support a distinction of the two disease entities based on their underlying molecular alterations.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignant disease of the myeloid line that caused by several chromosomal aberrations that include AML1 -ETO and MLL-AF9. In the current study, the correlations of fusion gene quantitative RT-PCR and hematological parameters in patients with AML were examined to determine their prognostic value in clinical practice.METHODOLOGY: This study was conducted at Alzaeim Alazhari University, Khartoum, Sudan. A total of 82 patients with AML (51 AML1-ETO and 31 MLL-AF9) were participated in the study. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine types of fusion genes Results: The expression of MLL-AF9 was significantly higher than that for AML1-ETO (P < 0.01). In addition, with respect to FAB classification M2/M3 types were dominated in patients with AML1-ETO gene fusion, whereas M4/M5 types were dominated in MLL-AF9 subjects (P < 0.01). Finally, neither AML1-ETO nor MLL-AF9 quantitative RT-PCR gene expressions were correlated with the examined hematological parameters including: hemoglobin, total white blood count, platelets and blast cells (P > 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Significant variations in AML1-ETO and MLL-AF9 expression were observed in AML. No correlations between the expression of fusion genes and hematological parameters were detected.
Erratum in    Nat Cell Biol. 2021 Feb 11;:
PURPOSE: Breast cancer is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in women. Five subtypes of breast cancer differ in their genetic expression profiles and carry different prognostic values, with no treatments available for some types, such as triple-negative, due to the absence of genetic signatures that could otherwise be targeted by molecular therapies. Although endocrine treatments are largely successful for estrogen receptor (ER)-positive cancers, a significant proportion of patients with metastatic tumors fail to respond and acquire resistance to therapy. FOXA1 overexpression mediates endocrine therapy resistance in ER-positive breast cancer, although the regulation of chemotherapy response by FOXA1 has not been addressed previously. FOXA1, together with EP300 and RUNX1, regulates the expression of E-cadherin, and is expressed in luminal, but absent in triple-negative and basal-like breast cancers. We have previously determined that EP300 regulates drug resistance and tumor initiation capabilities in breast cancer cells.METHODS: Here we describe the generation of breast cancer cell models in which FOXA1 expression has been modulated either by expression of hairpins targeting FOXA1 mRNA or overexpression plasmids.RESULTS: Upon FOXA1 knockdown in luminal MCF-7 and T47D cells, we found an increase in doxorubicin and paclitaxel sensitivity as well as a decrease in anchorage independence. Conversely, upregulation of FOXA1 in basal-like MDA-MB-231 cells led to an increase in drug resistance and anchorage independence.CONCLUSION: Together, these data suggest that FOXA1 plays a role in making tumors more aggressive.
This study explored the role of MEG3 in the cartilage differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs). We investigated the effects of over-expression and knockdown of MEG3 on cell viability, cell differentiation, and the expressions of MEG3, miR-129-5p, COL2, chondrocyte differentiation-related genes (sry-type high-mobility-group box 9 (SOX9), SOX5, Aggrecan, silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1), and Cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP)). The targeting relationship between MEG3 and miR-129-5p and the target gene of miR-129-5p was confirmed through Starbase, TargetScan and luciferase experiments. Finally, a series of rescue experiments were conducted to study the regulatory effects of MEG3 and miR-129-5p. BMSCs were identified as CD29+ and CD44+ positive, and their differentiation was time-dependent. As BMSCs differentiated, MEG3 expression was up-regulated, but miR-129-5p was down-regulated. Over-expressed MEG3 promoted the viability and differentiation of BMSCs, up-regulated the expressions of COL2 and chondrocyte differentiation-related genes, and inhibited miR-129-5p. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) was negatively regulated as a target gene of miR-129-5p. Results of rescue experiments showed that the inhibitory effect of miR-129-5p mimic on BMSCs could be partially reversed by MEG3. Over-expression of MEG3 regulated the miR-129-5p/RUNX1 axis to promote the differentiation of BMSCs into chondrocytes. This study provides a reliable basis for the application of lncRNA in articular cartilage injury.
BACKGROUND: RUNX1-IT1 suppresses colorectal cancer and liver cancer, while its role in other cancers is unknown. This study was performed to investigate the role of RUNX1-IT1 in endometrial cancer (EC).METHODS: EC and paired non-tumor tissues were collected from 62 EC patients, and the expression of RUNX1-IT1, mature miR-21 and miR-21 precursor in these tissue samples were determined by RT-qPCR. Correlations were analyzed by linear regression. Overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 was achieved in EC cells and the expression of mature miR-21 and miR-21 precursor were analyzed by RT-qPCR. CCK-8 assay was used for cell proliferation analysis.RESULTS: We found that RUNX1-IT1 was downregulated in EC and inversely correlated with mature miR-21 but not miR-21 precursor. RUNX1-IT1 was predicted to bind with miR-21 precursor. The interaction between them was verified by dual-luciferase activity assay and RNA pull-down assay. In EC cells, overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 downregulated mature miR-21, but not miR-21 precursor. Overexpression of RUNX1-IT1 suppressed the role of miR-21 in increasing cell proliferation.CONCLUSION: RUNX1-IT1 is downregulated in EC and inhibits cancer cell proliferation by suppressing the maturation of miR-21.
BACKGROUND: Precision therapy for lung cancer requires comprehensive genomic analyses. Specific effects of targeted therapies have been reported in Asia populations, including Taiwanese, but genomic studies have rarely been performed in these populations.METHOD: We enrolled 72 patients with non-small cell lung cancer, of whom 61 had adenocarcinoma, 10 had squamous cell carcinoma, and 1 had combined adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Whole-exome or targeted gene sequencing was performed. To identify trunk mutations, we performed whole-exome sequencing in two tumor regions in four patients.RESULTS: Nineteen known driver mutations in EGFR, PIK3CA, KRAS, CTNNB1, and MET were identified in 34 of the 72 tumors evaluated (47.22%). A comparison with the Cancer Genome Atlas dataset showed that EGFR was mutated at a much higher frequency in our cohort than in Caucasians, whereas KRAS and TP53 mutations were found in only 5.56% and 25% of our Taiwanese patients, respectively. We also identified new mutations in ARID1A, ARID2, CDK12, CHEK2, GNAS, H3F3A, KDM6A, KMT2C, NOTCH1, RB1, RBM10, RUNX1, SETD2, SF3B1, SMARCA4, THRAP3, TP53, and ZMYM2. Moreover, all ClinVar pathogenic variants were trunk mutations present in two regions of a tumor. RNA sequencing revealed that the trunk or branch genes were expressed at similar levels among different tumor regions.CONCLUSIONS: We identified novel variants potentially associated with lung cancer tumorigenesis. The specific mutation pattern in Taiwanese patients with non-small cell lung cancer may influence targeted therapies.
Mastocytosis is a rare and complex disease characterized by expansion of clonal mast cells (MC) in skin and/or various internal organ systems. Involvement of internal organs leads to the diagnosis of systemic mastocytosis (SM). The WHO classification divides SM into indolent SM, smoldering SM and advanced SM variants, including SM with an associated hematologic neoplasm, aggressive SM, and MC leukemia. Historically, genetic analysis of individuals with pure cutaneous mastocytosis (CM) and SM have focused primarily on cohort studies of inherited single nucleotide variants and acquired pathogenic variants. The most prevalent pathogenic variant (mutation) in patients with SM is KIT p.D816V, which is detectable in most adult patients. Other somatic mutations have also been identified-especially in advanced SM-in TET2, SRSF2, ASXL1, RUNX1, CBL and JAK2, and shown to impact clinical and cellular phenotypes. Although only small patient cohorts have been analyzed, disease associations have also been identified in several germline variants within genes encoding certain cytokines or their receptors (IL13, IL6, IL6R, IL31, IL4R) and toll-like receptors. More recently, an increased prevalence of hereditary alpha-tryptasemia (HαT) caused by increased TPSAB1 copy number encoding alpha-tryptase has been described in patients with SM. Whereas HαT is found in 3-6% of general Western populations, it is identified in up to 17% of patients with SM. In the current manuscript we review the prevalence, functional role and clinical impact of various germline and somatic genetic variants in patients with mastocytosis.
B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP-ALL) is characterized by genetic alterations with high heterogeneity. Precise subtypes with distinct genomic and/or gene expression patterns have been recently revealed using high-throughput sequencing technology. Most of these profiles are associated with recurrent non-overlapping rearrangements or hotspot point mutations that are analogous to the established subtypes, such as DUX4 rearrangements, MEF2D rearrangements, ZNF384/ZNF362 rearrangements, NUTM1 rearrangements, BCL2/MYC and/or BCL6 rearrangements, ETV6-RUNX1-like gene expression, PAX5alt (diverse PAX5 alterations, including rearrangements, intragenic amplifications, or mutations), and hotspot mutations PAX5 (p.Pro80Arg) with biallelic PAX5 alterations, IKZF1 (p.Asn159Tyr), and ZEB2 (p.His1038Arg). These molecular subtypes could be classified by gene expression patterns with RNA-seq technology. Refined molecular classification greatly improved the treatment strategy. Multiagent therapy regimens, including target inhibitors (e.g., imatinib), immunomodulators, monoclonal antibodies, and chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy, are transforming the clinical practice from chemotherapy drugs to personalized medicine in the field of risk-directed disease management. We provide an update on our knowledge of emerging molecular subtypes and therapeutic targets in BCP-ALL.
Mutations of the haematopoietic master regulator RUNX1 are associated with acute myeloid leukaemia, familial platelet disorder and other haematological malignancies whose phenotypes and prognoses depend upon the class of the RUNX1 mutation. The biochemical behaviour of these oncoproteins and their ability to cause unique diseases has been well studied, but the genomic basis of their differential action is unknown. To address this question we compared integrated phenotypic, transcriptomic, and genomic data from cells expressing four types of RUNX1 oncoproteins in an inducible fashion during blood development from embryonic stem cells. We show that each class of mutant RUNX1 deregulates endogenous RUNX1 function by a different mechanism, leading to specific alterations in developmentally controlled transcription factor binding and chromatin programming. The result is distinct perturbations in the trajectories of gene regulatory network changes underlying blood cell development which are consistent with the nature of the final disease phenotype. The development of novel treatments for RUNX1-driven diseases will therefore require individual consideration.
In systemic mastocytosis (SM), the clinical features and survival vary greatly. Patient-related factors determining the outcome in SM are largely unknown. Methods: We examined the impact of sex on the clinical features, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in 3403 patients with mastocytosis collected in the registry of the European Competence Network on Mastocytosis (ECNM). The impact of cytogenetic and molecular genetic aberrations on sex differences was analyzed in a subset of patients. Results: Of all patients enrolled, 55.3% were females. However, a male predominance was found in a subset of advanced SM (AdvSM) patients, namely SM with an associated hematologic neoplasm (SM-AHN, 70%; p < 0.001). Correspondingly, organomegaly (male: 23% vs. female: 13%, p = 0.007) was more, whereas skin involvement (male: 71% vs. female: 86%, p = 0.001) was less frequent in males. In all patients together, OS (p < 0.0001) was significantly inferior in males, and also within the WHO sub-categories indolent SM, aggressive SM (ASM) and SM-AHN. PFS was significantly (p = 0.0002) worse in males when all patients were grouped together; due to low numbers of events, this significance persisted only in the subcategory smoldering SM. Finally, prognostically relevant cytogenetic abnormalities (10% vs. 5%, p = 0.006) or molecular aberrations (SRSF2/ASXL1/RUNX1 profile; 63% vs. 40%, p = 0.003) were more frequently present in males. Conclusions: Male sex has a major impact on clinical features, disease progression, and survival in mastocytosis. Male patients have an inferior survival, which seems related to the fact that they more frequently develop a multi-mutated AdvSM associated with a high-risk molecular background.
Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) sensory neurons can transmit information about noxious stimulus to cerebral cortex via spinal cord, and play an important role in the pain pathway. Alterations of the pain pathway lead to CIPA (congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis) or chronic pain. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that nerve damage leads to the regeneration of neurons in DRG, which may contribute to pain modulation in feedback. Therefore, exploring the regeneration process of DRG neurons would provide a new understanding to the persistent pathological stimulation and contribute to reshape the somatosensory function. It has been reported that a subpopulation of satellite glial cells (SGCs) express Nestin and p75, and could differentiate into glial cells and neurons, suggesting that SGCs may have differentiation plasticity. Our results in the present study show that DRG-derived SGCs (DRG-SGCs) highly express neural crest cell markers Nestin, Sox2, Sox10, and p75, and differentiate into nociceptive sensory neurons in the presence of histone deacetylase inhibitor VPA, Wnt pathway activator CHIR99021, Notch pathway inhibitor RO4929097, and FGF pathway inhibitor SU5402. The nociceptive sensory neurons express multiple functionally-related genes (SCN9A, SCN10A, SP, Trpv1, and TrpA1) and are able to generate action potentials and voltage-gated Na+ currents. Moreover, we found that these cells exhibited rapid calcium transients in response to capsaicin through binding to the Trpv1 vanilloid receptor, confirming that the DRG-SGC-derived cells are nociceptive sensory neurons. Further, we show that Wnt signaling promotes the differentiation of DRG-SGCs into nociceptive sensory neurons by regulating the expression of specific transcription factor Runx1, while Notch and FGF signaling pathways are involved in the expression of SCN9A. These results demonstrate that DRG-SGCs have stem cell characteristics and can efficiently differentiate into functional nociceptive sensory neurons, shedding light on the clinical treatment of sensory neuron-related diseases.
OBJECTIVES: Although morphologic dysplasia is not typically considered a feature of CCUS, we have consistently observed low-level bone marrow (BM) dysplasia among CCUS patients. We sought to determine whether sub-diagnostic BM dysplasia in CCUS patients is associated with other clinico-pathologic findings of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).METHODS: We identified 49 CCUS patients, 25 with sub-diagnostic dysplasia (CCUS-D), and 24 having no dysplasia (CCUS-ND). We compared the clinical, histologic, and laboratory findings of CCUS-D and CCUS-ND patients to 49 MDS patients, including blood cell counts, BM morphology, flow cytometry, cytogenetics, and results of next-generation sequencing.RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were observed between CCUS-D and CCUS-ND patients in the degree of cytopenias, BM cellularity, myeloid-to-erythroid ratio, or the presence of flow cytometric abnormalities. However, compared to CCUS-ND, CCUS-D patients exhibited increased mutations in myeloid malignancy-associated genes, including non-TET2/DNMT3A/ASXL1 variants, spliceosome (SF3B1, SRSF2, ZRSR2, or U2AF1) variants, and IDH2/RUNX1/CBL variants. CCUS-D patients were also enriched for higher variant allele frequencies and co-mutation of TET2/DNMT3A/ASXL1 with other genes.CONCLUSIONS: CCUS-D patients exhibit a molecular (but not clinical) profile more similar to MDS patients than CCUS-ND, suggesting CCUS-D may represent a more immediate precursor to MDS and may warrant closer clinical follow-up.
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a heterogeneous disease whose prognostic factors include minimal residual disease (MRD) and cytogenetic abnormalities. To explore the significance of MRD in ALL subtypes, we analyzed the outcomes of 1126 children treated with risk-stratified therapy based on sequential MRD monitoring. MRD distributions and treatment outcomes differed between distinct leukemia subtypes. Patients with ETV6-RUNX1 or hyperdiploidy had the best prognosis (5-year OS: 97 ± 1.5% and 89.2 ± 2.7%). However, hyperdiploidy patients with MRD ≥ 10% on day 15 had a higher risk of relapse (36.4%) than those with ETV6-RUNX1. TCF3-PBX1 patients had the fastest disease clearance (negative MRD rate on day 33: 92.1%), but the overall prognosis was intermediate (5-year OS: 82.5%). Patients with high-risk characteristics and ALL-T had inferior outcomes: even with undetectable MRD on day 33, cumulative incidence of relapse was 19.9% and 23.4%, respectively. Moreover, those with poor early-treatment response and detectable week-12 MRD had a worse prognosis. After adjusting for other risk factors, re-emergent MRD was the most significant adverse prognostic indicator overall. Sequential MRD measurement is important for MRD-guided therapy, and integration of MRD values at different timepoints based on leukemia subtype could allow for more refined risk stratification.
Comment in    Mol Cell. 2021 Feb 4;81(3):418-420.
Among the childhood diseases, B-cell acute lymphocytic leukemia (B-ALL) is the most frequent type of cancer. Despite recent advances concerning disease treatment, cytotoxic chemotherapy remains the first line of treatment in several countries, and the modifications induced by such drugs in the organism are still poorly understood. In this context, the present study provided a comparative high-throughput proteomic analysis of the cumulative changes induced by chemotherapeutic drugs used in the induction phase of B-ALL treatment in both peripheral blood (PB) and bone marrow compartment (BM) samples. To reach this goal, PB and BM plasma samples were comparatively analyzed by using label-free proteomics at two endpoints: at diagnosis (D0) and the end of the cumulative induction phase treatment (D28). Proteomic data was available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD021584. The resulting differentially expressed proteins were explored by bioinformatics approaches aiming to identify the main gene ontology processes, pathways, and transcription factors altered by chemotherapy, as well as to understand B-ALL biology in each compartment at D0. At D0, PB was characterized as a pro-inflammatory environment, with the involvement of several downregulated coagulation proteins as KNG, plasmin, and plasminogen. D28 was characterized predominantly by immune response-related processes and the super expression of the transcription factor IRF3 and transthyretin. RUNX1 was pointed out as a common transcription factor found in both D0 and D28. We chose to validate the proteins transthyretin and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) by commercial kits and expressed the results as PB/BM ratios. Transthyretin ratio was augmented after induction chemotherapy, while IFN-γ was reduced at the end of the treatment. Considering that most of these proteins were not yet described in B-ALL literature, these findings added to understanding disease biology at diagnosis and highlighted a possible role for transthyretin and IFN-γ as mechanisms related to disease resolution.
INTRODUCTION: Chromosomal aberrations play a significant role in the pathogenesis of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with prognostic and therapeutic implications. Despite the availability of molecular tools, low-resource settings struggle to diagnose the disease due to limited diagnostic capacity. The objective of this study was to detect common chromosomal aberrations in patients with ALL attending the University Teaching Hospital (UTH) in Lusaka, Zambia.MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this prospective study, 19 blood samples from patients with ALL were screened for the presence of BCR-ABL, E2A-PBX1, MLL-AF4, and ETV6-RUNX1 fusion oncogenes using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction assay. Blood counts and clinical characteristics of patients were also assessed.RESULTS: The age of patients ranged from 1½ to 72 years and comprised 57.9% of males and 42.1% of females. The majority of these patients were children (68%), and adults only comprised 32%. Only BCR-ABL and E2A-PBX1 oncogenes were detected in 3/19 of cases. The BCR-ABL gene was detected in a 4-year-old female child and a 15-year-old child. Both cases were associated with hepatomegaly and anemia coupled with low hemoglobin, white blood cell, and platelet counts. E2A-PBX1 was detected in a 12-year-old child with lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly, coupled with low hemoglobin, white blood cell, and platelet counts. All the three patients who harbored these fusion oncogenes died.CONCLUSION: This is the first study from Zambia to investigate the presence of fusion oncogenes in leukemia patients, which were found only among the older children population. Based on these findings, we recommend that molecular diagnosis be made a priority for the younger leukemia patient population at UTH.
The level of CD40 expression on dendritic cells (DCs) plays a decisive role in disease protection during Leishmania donovani (LD) infection. However, current understanding of the molecular regulation of CD40 expression remains elusive. Using molecular, cellular and functional approaches, we identified a role for Runx1 and Runx3 transcription factors in the regulation of CD40 expression in DCs. In response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) or antileishmanial drug sodium antimony gluconate (SAG), both Runx1 and Runx3 translocated to the nucleus, bound to the CD40 promoter and upregulated CD40 expression on DCs. These activities of Runx proteins were mediated by the upstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway. Notably, LD infection attenuated LPS- or TNFα-induced CD40 expression in DCs by inhibiting PI3K-Akt-Runx axis via protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1. In contrast, CD40 expression induced by SAG was unaffected by LD infection, as SAG by blocking LD-induced SHP-1 activation potentiated PI3K-Akt signaling to drive Runx-mediated CD40 upregulation. Adoptive transfer experiments further showed that Runx1 and Runx3 play a pivotal role in eliciting antileishmanial immune response of SAG-treated DCs in vivo by promoting CD40-mediated type-1 T cell responses. Importantly, antimony-resistant LD suppressed SAG-induced CD40 upregulation on DCs by blocking the PI3K-Akt-Runx pathway through sustained SHP-1 activation. These findings unveil an immunoregulatory role for Runx proteins during LD infection.
High hyperdiploid acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is one of the most common malignancies in children. The main driver event of this disease is a nonrandom aneuploidy consisting of gains of whole chromosomes but without overt evidence of chromosomal instability (CIN). Here, we investigated the frequency and severity of defective sister chromatid cohesion-a phenomenon related to CIN-in primary pediatric ALL. We found that a large proportion (86%) of hyperdiploid cases displayed aberrant cohesion, frequently severe, to compare with 49% of ETV6/RUNX1-positive ALL, which mostly displayed mild defects. In hyperdiploid ALL, cohesion defects were associated with increased chromosomal copy number heterogeneity, which could indicate increased CIN. Furthermore, cohesion defects correlated with RAD21 and NCAPG mRNA expression, suggesting a link to reduced cohesin and condensin levels in hyperdiploid ALL. Knockdown of RAD21 in an ALL cell line led to sister chromatid cohesion defects, aberrant mitoses, and increased heterogeneity in chromosomal copy numbers, similar to what was seen in primary hyperdiploid ALL. In summary, our study shows that aberrant sister chromatid cohesion is frequent but heterogeneous in pediatric high hyperdiploid ALL, ranging from mild to very severe defects, and possibly due to low cohesin or condensin levels. Cases with high levels of aberrant chromosome cohesion displayed increased chromosomal copy number heterogeneity, possibly indicative of increased CIN. These abnormalities may play a role in the clonal evolution of hyperdiploid pediatric ALL.
Insulin mimetics, including zinc containing compounds, have previously been shown to influence chondrogenesis as it relates to healing of fractures in various preclinical models. However, the mechanism by which these compounds drive chondrogenic differentiation is yet undefined. Here, via next-generation sequencing (NGS) and in vitro functional validation, we show that Zinc Chloride (ZnCl2) induces expression of both chondrogenic genes (Sox9, Runx1, collagen) as well as genes associated with VEGF-mediated signal transduction, including VEGF receptors 1 and 2 and their ligands; VEGF-A and VEGF-B. Noticeably, although insulin was able to also induce expression of these pro-angiogenic and pro-chondrogenic genes, the impact of insulin on expression of VEGF receptor and ligand genes was marginal when compared to that of ZnCl2. Furthermore, while the VEGFR antagonist, Axitinib, was able to attenuate the pro-chondrogenic effects of both insulin and ZnCl2; a reduction in gene and protein expression was most profoundly observed when the antagonist was applied to cells treated with ZnCl2. Taken together, these data suggest an important role for the VEGF-mediated signal transduction pathways in the positive effects observed when applying zinc-based compounds as adjuvants for chondrogenesis-mediated fracture healing. In this regard, further mechanistic evaluation of ZnCl2 and other zinc-containing insulin mimetics may support rational design of therapies targeted for disease indications associated with impaired fracture healing.
Turner syndrome (TS) is a chromosomal condition that affects development in females. The case of TS in the mother whose child was diagnosed with acute leukemia at the age of 1.5 years is presented. FANCI gene in child was detected among 94 genes associated- with hematologic malignancies. Acute lymphoblastic leukemia, common-B ІІ, L1, associated with t(12;21)(p13;q22), TEL/AML1 (ETV6/RUNX1) in a child was detected during a prophylactic examination. During the treatment of the baby, the mother had a second pregnancy, which ended in miscarriage at 8 weeks. Upon cytogenetic examination in the mother TS was revealed - mos45,Х[23]/46, ХХ[7], and the father's karyotype was without abnormalities (46, ХУ). After chemotherapy, the child is in clinical-hematological remission. It could be suggested that chromosomal abnormalities in mother with TS may cause the chromosomal instability and hematological malignancy in offspring.
RUNX1 overlapping RNA (RUNXOR) is a long non-coding RNA and plays a pivotal role in the differentiation of myeloid cells via targeting runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1). We and others have previously reported that myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) expand and inhibit host immune responses during chronic viral infections; however, the mechanisms responsible for MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions, in particular the role of RUNXOR-RUNX1, remain unclear. Here, we demonstrated that RUNXOR and RUNX1 expressions are significantly upregulated and associated with elevated levels of immunosuppressive molecules, such as arginase 1 (Arg1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) in MDSCs during chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Mechanistically, we discovered that HCV-associated exosomes (HCV-Exo) can induce the expressions of RUNXOR and RUNX1, which in turn regulates miR-124 expression via STAT3 signaling, thereby promoting MDSC differentiation and suppressive functions. Importantly, overexpression of RUNXOR in healthy CD33+ myeloid cells promoted differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs. Conversely, silencing RUNXOR or RUNX1 expression in HCV-derived CD33+ myeloid cells significantly inhibited their differentiation and expressions of suppressive molecules and improved the function of co-cultured autologous CD4 T cells. Taken together, these results indicate that the RUNXOR-RUNX1-STAT3-miR124 axis enhances the differentiation and suppressive functions of MDSCs and could be a potential target for immunomodulation in conjunction with antiviral therapy during chronic HCV infection.
Transplantation is the most common assay for measuring the in vivo functionality of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Although various HSC transplantation strategies have been developed in zebrafish, they are underutilized because of challenges related to immune matching and preconditioning toxicity. To circumvent these limitations, we developed a simple and robust transplantation model using HSC-deficient hosts. Homozygous runx1W84X mutants are devoid of definitive hematopoietic cells, including HSCs and adaptive immune cells; thus, they require no preconditioning regimen for transplantation. Marrow cell transplantation into runx1-mutant zebrafish 2 days after fertilization significantly improved their survival to adulthood and resulted in robust, multilineage, long-lasting, serially repopulating engraftment. Furthermore, we demonstrated that engraftment into runx1 homozygous mutants was significantly higher than into runx1 heterozygotes, demonstrating that the improved transplantation success is attributable to the empty HSC niche in mutants and not just the embryonic environment. Competitive transplantation of marrow cells into runx1 mutants revealed a stem cell frequency similar to that of murine marrow cells, which demonstrates the utility of this model for quantifying HSC function. The streamlined approach and robustness of this assay will help broaden its feasibility for future high-throughput transplantation experiments in zebrafish and will enable further novel discoveries in the biology of HSCs.
Comment on    Blood. 2020 May 21;135(21):1882-1886.
Somatic mutations in splicing factor genes frequently occur in myeloid neoplasms. While SF3B1 mutations are associated with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) with ring sideroblasts, SRSF2P95 mutations are found in different disease categories, including MDS, myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPN), and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). To identify molecular determinants of this phenotypic heterogeneity, we explored molecular and clinical features of a prospective cohort of 279 SRSF2P95-mutated cases selected from a population of 2663 patients with myeloid neoplasms. Median number of somatic mutations per subject was 3. Multivariate regression analysis showed associations between co-mutated genes and clinical phenotype, including JAK2 or MPL with myelofibrosis (OR = 26.9); TET2 with monocytosis (OR = 5.2); RAS-pathway genes with leukocytosis (OR = 5.1); and STAG2, RUNX1, or IDH1/2 with blast phenotype (MDS or AML) (OR = 3.4, 1.9, and 2.1, respectively). Within patients with SRSF2-JAK2 co-mutation, JAK2 dominance was invariably associated with clinical feature of MPN, whereas SRSF2 mutation was dominant in MDS/MPN. Within patients with SRSF2-TET2 co-mutation, clinical expressivity of monocytosis was positively associated with co-mutated clone size. This study provides evidence that co-mutation pattern, clone size, and hierarchy concur to determine clinical phenotype, tracing relevant genotype-phenotype associations across disease entities and giving insight on unaccountable clinical heterogeneity within current WHO classification categories.
Choroidal neovascularization (CNV) is a prevalent cause of vision loss in patients with age-related macular degeneration. Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) has been identified as an important mediator of aberrant retinal angiogenesis in proliferative diabetic retinopathy and its modulation has proven to be effective in curbing pathologic angiogenesis in experimental oxygen-induced retinopathy. However, its role in CNV remains to be elucidated. This study demonstrates RUNX1 expression in critical cell types involved in a laser-induced model of CNV in mice. Furthermore, the preclinical efficacy of Ro5-3335, a small molecule inhibitor of RUNX1, in experimental CNV is reported. RUNX1 inhibitor Ro5-3335, aflibercept-an FDA-approved vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor, or a combination of both, were administered by intravitreal injection immediately after laser injury. The CNV area of choroidal flatmounts was evaluated by immunostaining with isolectin B4, and vascular permeability was analyzed by fluorescein angiography. A single intravitreal injection of Ro5-3335 significantly decreased the CNV area 7 days after laser injury, and when combined with aflibercept, reduced vascular leakage more effectively than aflibercept alone. These data suggest that RUNX1 inhibition alone or in combination with anti-VEGF drugs may be a new therapy upon further clinical validation for patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in brain development and function. Substantial amounts of BDNF are present in peripheral blood, and may serve as biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease incidence as well as targets for intervention to reduce Alzheimer's disease risk. With the exception of the genetic polymorphism in the BDNF gene, Val66Met, which has been extensively studied with regard to neurodegenerative diseases, the genetic variation that influences circulating BDNF levels is unknown. We aimed to explore the genetic determinants of circulating BDNF levels in order to clarify its mechanistic involvement in brain structure and function and Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology in middle-aged and old adults. Thus, we conducted a meta-analysis of genome-wide association study of circulating BDNF in 11 785 middle- and old-aged individuals of European ancestry from the Age, Gene/Environment Susceptibility-Reykjavik Study (AGES), the Framingham Heart Study (FHS), the Rotterdam Study and the Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP-Trend). Furthermore, we performed functional annotation analysis and related the genetic polymorphism influencing circulating BDNF to common Alzheimer's disease pathologies from brain autopsies. Mendelian randomization was conducted to examine the possible causal role of circulating BDNF levels with various phenotypes including cognitive function, stroke, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, physical activity and diet patterns. Gene interaction networks analysis was also performed. The estimated heritability of BDNF levels was 30% (standard error = 0.0246, P-value = 4 × 10-48). We identified seven novel independent loci mapped near the BDNF gene and in BRD3, CSRNP1, KDELC2, RUNX1 (two single-nucleotide polymorphisms) and BDNF-AS. The expression of BDNF was associated with neurofibrillary tangles in brain tissues from the Religious Orders Study and Rush Memory and Aging Project (ROSMAP). Seven additional genes (ACAT1, ATM, NPAT, WDR48, TTC21A, SCN114 and COX7B) were identified through expression and protein quantitative trait loci analyses. Mendelian randomization analyses indicated a potential causal role of BDNF in cardioembolism. Lastly, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis placed circulating BDNF levels in four major networks. Our study provides novel insights into genes and molecular pathways associated with circulating BDNF levels and highlights the possible involvement of plaque instability as an underlying mechanism linking BDNF with brain neurodegeneration. These findings provide a foundation for a better understanding of BDNF regulation and function in the context of brain aging and neurodegenerative pathophysiology.
BACKGROUND: This study evaluates the main (para)clinical aspects and outcomes in a group of Romanian children diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), under the conditions of antileukemic treatment according to an adapted ALL IC Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM) 2002 protocol.METHODS: We performed a retrospective single-center study of 125 children diagnosed with ALL between 2010 and 2016. Standard forms were used for data collection of variate clinical and paraclinical parameters.RESULTS: The children were predominantly male (64.8%) and their median age at diagnosis was 5 years. A total of 107 patients were diagnosed with precursor B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (BCP)-ALL and 18 with T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia T-ALL. Multiplex reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT-PCR assay for ETV6-RUNX1, BCR-ABL, E2A-PBX1, KMT2A-AFF1, and STIL-TAL1 fusion genes was performed in 111 patients. ETV6-RUNX1 translocation was detected in 18.9% of patients, while BCR-ABL1 and E2A-PBX1 rearrangements were seen in 2.7% and 3.6%, respectively. Complete remission at the end of induction phase was obtained in 89.6% of patients. The overall relapse rate was 11.2%, with 11 early and 3 late relapses. The 5-year overall survival rate in BCP-ALL was 81.6% and in T-ALL 71.4%.CONCLUSIONS: The 5-year overall and event-free survival rates in our study were slightly lower than those reported in developed countries, so the patients' outcomes are encouraging.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology; National Clinical Research Center for Blood Diseases; Institute of Hematology & Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
Although much work has focused on the elucidation of somatic alterations that drive the development of acute leukaemias and other haematopoietic diseases, it has become increasingly recognized that germline mutations are common in many of these neoplasms. In this Review, we highlight the different genetic pathways impacted by germline mutations that can ultimately lead to the development of familial and sporadic haematological malignancies, including acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Many of the genes disrupted by somatic mutations in these diseases (for example, TP53, RUNX1, IKZF1 and ETV6) are the same as those that harbour germline mutations in children and adolescents who develop these malignancies. Moreover, the presumption that familial leukaemias only present in childhood is no longer true, in large part due to the numerous studies demonstrating germline DDX41 mutations in adults with MDS and AML. Lastly, we highlight how different cooperating events can influence the ultimate phenotype in these different familial leukaemia syndromes.
Author information:(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Blood Diseases, Institute of Hematology and Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a heterogenous disease with multiple sub-types which are defined by different somatic mutations that cause blood cell differentiation to go astray. Mutations occur in genes encoding members of the cellular machinery controlling transcription and chromatin structure, including transcription factors, chromatin modifiers, DNA-methyltransferases, but also signaling molecules that activate inducible transcription factors controlling gene expression and cell growth. Mutant cells in AML patients are unable to differentiate and adopt new identities that are shaped by the original driver mutation and by rewiring their gene regulatory networks into regulatory phenotypes with enhanced fitness. One of the best-studied AML-subtypes is the t(8;21) AML which carries a translocation fusing the DNA-binding domain of the hematopoietic master regulator RUNX1 to the ETO gene. The resulting oncoprotein, RUNX1/ETO has been studied for decades, both at the biochemical but also at the systems biology level. It functions as a dominant-negative version of RUNX1 and interferes with multiple cellular processes associated with myeloid differentiation, growth regulation and genome stability. In this review, we summarize our current knowledge of how this protein reprograms normal into malignant cells and how our current knowledge could be harnessed to treat the disease.
OBJECTIVES: RUNX1 mutations have been widely found in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Majority of reports revealed that RUNX1 mutations are associated with a poor prognosis. However, discrepancies still remain. The results of univariate analysis were not confirmed in multivariate analysis in some cases. Therefore, we performed a meta-analysis to assess the prognostic effect of RUNX1 mutations in MDS.METHODS: We extracted data from qualified studies that were searched from PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library. Hazard ratios (HRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the overall survival (OS) and leukemia free survival (LFS) were pooled from the multivariate Cox proportional hazard models.RESULTS: Sixteen studies containing 5422 patients were included in this meta-analysis. There were 617 patients with mutated RUNX1 and 4805 patients with wide type RUNX1. The total HR for OS was 1.43 (95% CI = 1.21-1.70, P < 0.0001) and the counterpart of LFS was 1.88 (95% CI = 1.42-2.51, P < 0.0001).DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the RUNX1 mutations are associated with unfavorable outcomes and shorter survival in patients with MDS. Furthermore, poor prognosis of patients might be alleviated by stem cell transplantation. Patients bearing these mutations should be prioritized for aggressive therapy.
Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) is a clonal hematopoietic neoplasm that exhibits myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative characteristics with heterogeneous clinical and pathological features. There are limited publications on the ethnic and racial disparity of cytogenetics and genomics in CMML patients. This study aims to define the cytogenetic and molecular landscape in Hispanic CMML patients from Puerto Rico and explore its possible clinical significance. One hundred and eleven (111) Hispanic CMML patients from Puerto Rico were diagnosed in our institute from 2009 to 2018. Karyotypes were available in one hundred and seven (107) patients. Seventeen (17) patients had abnormal karyotypes (17/107, 16%). Compared to previously published data, Hispanic CMML patients in this study had significantly lower rates of overall cytogenetic abnormalities (16% vs 27-28%, p < 0.05) and trisomy 8 (2% vs 7%, p < 0.05). Among one hundred and eleven (111) Hispanic CMML patients, 40-gene myeloid molecular profile tests were performed in fifty-six (56) CMML patients. Gene mutations were identified in fifty-four (54) patients (96%). The most frequent mutated genes were: TET2, SRSF2, ASXL1, ZRSR2, DNMT3A, NRAS, CBL, and RUNX1. Twenty-nine (29) out of fifty-six (56) patients (29/56, 52%) had mutated TET2/wild type ASXL1 (muTET2/wtASXL1). Previous studies indicated that mutated ASXL1, DNMT3A, NRAS, RUNX1, and SETBP1 may associate with an unfavorable prognosis and muTET2/wtASXL1 may associate with a favorable prognosis in CMML patients. Compared to previously published data, Hispanic CMML patients from Puerto Rico in this study had significantly lower mutation rates in ASXL1 and SETBP1, and a higher rate of muTET2/wtASXL1. The findings raise the possibility of a favorable prognosis in Hispanic CMML patients.
OBJECTIVES: Pure erythroid leukemia (PEL) is exceptionally rare in the pediatric setting. Four pediatric PEL cases with t(1;16)(p31;q24) NFIA-CBFA2T3 were reported previously. We present a case of an infant with PEL presenting with erythroblastic sarcoma and harboring a novel t(1;8)(p31.3;q21.3) NFIA-RUNX1T1 fusion detected by RNA sequencing and conventional karyotype.METHODS: Bone marrow (BM) and abdominal mass biopsies from the patient were evaluated with extensive immunohistochemical, flow cytometric, cytogenetic, and molecular studies.RESULTS: The patient was a female infant who presented between 2 and 5 months of age with cytopenias and an enlarging abdominal mass. Blasts in the BM and abdominal mass expressed CD71 and CD117 with focal expression of CD43, E-cadherin, epithelial membrane antigen, and hemoglobin A. They were negative for additional myeloid, lymphoid, and nonhematolymphoid markers. These findings were most consistent with PEL and erythroblastic sarcoma. RNA sequencing revealed the novel NFIA-RUNX1T1 fusion.CONCLUSIONS: Along with the previously reported PELs with NFIA-CBFA2T3 fusions, we describe a subset of PELs that occur in children, that frequently display extramedullary disease, and that harbor rearrangements of NFIA with core binding factor genes. We hypothesize that, together, these cases represent a rare but distinct clinicopathologic group of pediatric PELs with recurrent genetic abnormality.
BACKGROUND: Chromosomal analysis is essential for the diagnosis and risk stratification of all leukemia patients. Not surprisingly, racial differences in chromosomal aberrations (CA) in hematological malignancies could be found, and CA incidence in leukemia might change over time, possibly due to environmental and lifestyle changes. Thus, we compared the frequency and range of CA in patients with acute leukemia (AL) during two time periods (2006‒2009 vs. 2010‒2015) and compared them with other prior studies.METHODS: We enrolled 717 patients with AL during a six-year period (2010‒2015). We compared the results to those of our earlier study (2006‒2009) [1]. Conventional cytogenetics, a multiplex reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR system, and fluorescence in situ hybridization were employed to assess bone marrow specimens or peripheral blood at the diagnostic stage in AL patients to detect CA.RESULTS: The incidence of CA changed in the leukemia subgroups during the two time periods. Notably, the most frequent CA of childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML) was PML/RARA, and was followed by RUNX1/RUNX1T1 in the current study. In contrast, the most common CA was RUNX1/RUNX1T1 in a previous study [1] and was followed by PML/RARA. In this study, the most frequent CA of the mixed phenotype AL was BCR/ABL1, which was followed by KMT2A/MLLT3. In a previous report, [1] the most frequent CA was BCR/ABL1, which was followed by KMT2A/ELL.CONCLUSION: The distribution of CA in Korean AL patients changed over time in a single institute. This change might be due to environmental and lifestyle changes.
Recently, novel drugs like venetoclax plus 5-azacytidine (VA) were reported to have promising efficacy in refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, there are still some cases presented with novel drugs resistance, and its genetics composition and clinical phenotype are urging to study. We described a 58-year-old patient who was resistant to intensive chemotherapy. This refractory AML was presented with the persistence of RUNX1, IDH1 and DNMT3A mutations. RUNX1 mutations disappeared and leukemia cutis ensued after multiple chemotherapies. Leukemia cutis exhibited NRAS mutations in addition to IDH1 and DNMT3A mutations. With the VA salvage treatment, platelets were recovered to the normal level and blasts in bone marrow and peripheral blood were moderately controlled. However, leukemia cutis did not resolve. Unexpectedly, BM blasts obtained the new NRAS mutations after VA treatment, and consequently experienced leukostasis with two distinct leukemia clones. After survival of 230 days, this patient died because of spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage. This case highlights presentation of leukemia cutis with simultaneous mutations of IDH1, DNMT3A and NRAS in AML patients might act as a resistant niche to avoid the toxicity of multiple drugs including VA. There is unmet need to validate this result in the clinical trials or a large cohort of patients in the future.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, The Affiliated Huai'an No.1 People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Key Laboratory of Hematology of Nanjing Medical University, Huai'an 223300, Jiangsu Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, The Affiliated Huai'an No.1 People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Key Laboratory of Hematology of Nanjing Medical University, Huai'an 223300, Jiangsu Province, China E-mail: hzm0907@126.com.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, Guangdong Province, China.(2)Department of Hematology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, Guangdong Province, China,E-mail: berrydai2003@aliyun.com.
The last 10 years have seen an explosion in the amount of data available through next-generation sequencing. These data are advancing quickly, and this pace makes it difficult for most practitioners to easily keep up with all of the new information. Complicating this understanding is sometimes conflicting information about variant pathogenicity or even about the role of some genes in the pathogenesis of disease. The more widespread clinical use of sequencing has expanded phenotypes, including the identification of mild phenotypes associated with previously serious disease, such as with some variants in RUNX1, MYH9, ITG2A, and others. Several organizations have taken up the task of cataloging and systematically evaluating genes and variants using a standardized approach and making the data publicly available so that others can benefit from their gene/variant curation. The efforts in testing for hereditary hemorrhagic, thrombotic, and platelet disorders have been led by the International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis Scientific Standardization Committee on Genomics in Thrombosis and Hemostasis, the American Society of Hematology, and the National Institutes of Health National Human Genome Research Institute Clinical Genome Resource. This article outlines current efforts to improve the interpretation of genetic testing and the role of standardizing and disseminating information. By assessing the strength of gene-disease associations, standardizing variant curation guidelines, sharing genomic data among expert members, and incorporating data from existing disease databases, the number of variants of uncertain significance will decrease, thereby improving the value of genetic testing as a diagnostic tool.
Fulminant hepatic failure (FHF) is a clinical syndrome characterized by a sudden and severe impairment in liver function. However, the precise mechanism of immune dysregulation that is significant to FHF pathogenesis remains unclear. Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) has been implicated in inflammation as a regulator of immune cell function. In this study, we investigated the role of EZH2 in an animal model of human FHF induced by Propionibacterium acnes (P. acnes) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We demonstrated that EZH2 depletion in dendritic cells (DCs) and pharmacological inhibition of EZH2 using GSK126 both significantly ameliorated liver injury and improved the survival rates of mice with P. acnes plus LPS-induced FHF, which could be attributed to the decreased infiltration and activation of CD4+ T cells in the liver, inhibition of T helper 1 cells and induction of regulatory T cells. The expression of EZH2 in DCs was increased after P. acnes administration, and EZH2 deficiency in DCs suppressed DC maturation and prevented DCs from efficiently stimulating CD4+ T-cell proliferation. Further mechanistic analyses indicated that EZH2 deficiency directly increased the expression of the transcription factor RUNX1 and thereby suppressed the immune functions of DCs. The functional dependence of EZH2 on RUNX1 was further illustrated in DC-specific Ezh2-deficient mice. Taken together, our findings establish that EZH2 exhibits anti-inflammatory effects through inhibition of RUNX1 to regulate DC functions and that inhibition of EZH2 alleviates P. acnes plus LPS-induced FHF, probably by inhibiting DC-induced adaptive immune responses. These results highlight the effect of EZH2 on DCs, serving as a guide for the development of a promising immunotherapeutic strategy for FHF.
Proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) is the leading cause of retinal detachment surgery failure. Despite significant advances in vitreoretinal surgery, it still remains without an effective prophylactic or therapeutic medical treatment. After ocular injury or retinal detachment, misplaced retinal cells undergo epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) to form contractile membranes within the eye. We identified Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) as a gene highly expressed in surgically-removed human PVR specimens. RUNX1 upregulation was a hallmark of EMT in primary cultures derived from human PVR membranes (C-PVR). The inhibition of RUNX1 reduced proliferation of human C-PVR cells in vitro, and curbed growth of freshly isolated human PVR membranes in an explant assay. We formulated Ro5-3335, a lipophilic small molecule RUNX1 inhibitor, into a nanoemulsion that when administered topically curbed the progression of disease in a novel rabbit model of mild PVR developed using C-PVR cells. Mass spectrometry analysis detected 2.67 ng/mL of Ro5-3335 within the vitreous cavity after treatment. This work shows a critical role for RUNX1 in PVR and supports the feasibility of targeting RUNX1 within the eye for the treatment of an EMT-mediated condition using a topical ophthalmic agent.
Albumin can be of particular benefit in fighting infections for newborn calves due to its anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress properties. To identify the candidate genes related to the concentration of albumin in colostrum and serum, we collected the colostrum and blood samples from 572 Chinese Holstein cows within 24 h after calving and measured the concentration of albumin in the colostrum and serum using the ELISA methods. The cows were genotyped with GeneSeek 150 K chips (containing 140,668 single nucleotide polymorphisms; SNPs). After quality control, we performed GWASs via GCTA software with 91,620 SNPs and 563 cows. Consequently, 9 and 7 genome-wide significant SNPs (false discovery rate (FDR) at 1%) were identified. Correspondingly, 42 and 206 functional genes that contained or were approximate to (±1 Mbp) the significant SNPs were acquired. Integrating the biological process of these genes and the reported QTLs for immune and inflammation traits in cattle, 3 and 12 genes were identified as candidates for the concentration of colostrum and serum albumin, respectively; these are RUNX1, CBR1, OTULIN,CDK6, SHARPIN, CYC1, EXOSC4, PARP10, NRBP2, GFUS, PYCR3, EEF1D, GSDMD, PYCR2 and CXCL12. Our findings provide important information for revealing the genetic mechanism behind albumin concentration and for molecular breeding of disease-resistance traits in dairy cattle.
A high incidence of acute megakaryoblastic leukemia (AMKL) in Down syndrome patients implies that chromosome 21 genes have a pivotal role in AMKL development, but the functional contribution of individual genes remains elusive. Here, we report that SON, a chromosome 21-encoded DNA- and RNA-binding protein, inhibits megakaryocytic differentiation by suppressing RUNX1 and the megakaryocytic gene expression program. As megakaryocytic progenitors differentiate, SON expression is drastically reduced, with mature megakaryocytes having the lowest levels. In contrast, AMKL cells express an aberrantly high level of SON, and knockdown of SON induced the onset of megakaryocytic differentiation in AMKL cell lines. Genome-wide transcriptome analyses revealed that SON knockdown turns on the expression of pro-megakaryocytic genes while reducing erythroid gene expression. Mechanistically, SON represses RUNX1 expression by directly binding to the proximal promoter and two enhancer regions, the known +23 kb enhancer and the novel +139 kb enhancer, at the RUNX1 locus to suppress H3K4 methylation. In addition, SON represses the expression of the AP-1 complex subunits JUN, JUNB, and FOSB which are required for late megakaryocytic gene expression. Our findings define SON as a negative regulator of RUNX1 and megakaryocytic differentiation, implicating SON overexpression in impaired differentiation during AMKL development.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatrics, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410013, China. 179458028@qq.com.(2)Department of Pediatrics, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410013, China.(3)Department of Pediatrics, Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha 410013, China. zhao_mingyi@csu.edu.cn.
Aim: To determine the role of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in noncoding RNAs in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) subtypes. Materials & methods: We screened all SNPs in 130 pre-miRNA genes to assess their role in the susceptibility of the most common subtypes of ALL: hyperdiploid and ETV6-RUNX1. Results: In two independent cohorts, we found a significant association between rs10406069 in miR-5196 and the risk of developing hyperdiploid ALL. This observation could be explained by the impact of the SNP on miR-5196 expression and in turn, in its target genes. Indeed, rs10406069 was associated with expression changes in SMC1A, a gene involved in sister chromatin cohesion. Conclusion: rs10406069 in miR-5196 may have a relevant role in hyperdiploid ALL risk.
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu 233000, China.
Myogenesis is an important and complicated biological process, especially during the process of embryonic development. The homeoprotein Msx1 is a crucial transcriptional repressor of myogenesis and maintains myogenic precursor cells in an undifferentiated, proliferative state. However, the molecular mechanism through which Msx1 coordinates myogenesis remains to be elucidated. Here, we determine the interacting partner proteins of Msx1 in myoblast cells by a proteomic screening method. Msx1 is found to interact with 55 proteins, among which our data demonstrate that the cooperation of Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) with Msx1 is required for myoblast cell differentiation. Our findings provide important insights into the mechanistic roles of Msx1 in myoblast cell differentiation, and lays foundation for the myogenic differentiation process.
Runt-related transcription factors regulate many developmental processes such as proliferation and differentiation. In this study, the function of the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) was investigated in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Our results show that RUNX1 expression was elevated in HNSCC patients, which was greatly correlated with the N stage, tumor size, and American Joint Committee on Cancer stage. Cox proportional hazard models showed that RUNX1 could be used as a prognostic indicator for the overall survival of HNSCC patients (hazard ratio, 5.572; 95% confidence interval, 1.860-9.963; P < 0.001). Moreover, suppression of RUNX1 inhibited HNSCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Using the HNSCC xenograft nude mouse model, we found that the shRUNX1-transfected tumor (sh-RUNX1) was significantly smaller both in size and weight than the control vector-transfected tumor (sh-Control). In conclusion, our results show that the elevated RUNX1 expression was correlated with tumor growth and metastasis in HNSCC, indicating that RUNX1 could be used as a biomarker for tumor recurrence and prognosis.
Protein arginine methyltransferase-1 (PRMT1) is an important epigenetic regulator of cell function and contributes to inflammation and remodeling in asthma in a cell type-specific manner. Disease-specific expression patterns of microRNAs (miRNA) are associated with chronic inflammatory lung diseases, including asthma. The de novo synthesis of miRNA depends on the transcription of primary miRNA (pri-miRNA) transcript. This study assessed the role of PRMT1 on pri-miRNA to mature miRNA process in lung epithelial cells. Human airway epithelial cells, BEAS-2B, were transfected with the PRMT1 expression plasmid pcDNA3.1-PRMT1 for 48 h. Expression profiles of miRNA were determined by small RNA deep sequencing. Comparing these miRNAs with datasets of microarrays from five asthma patients (Gene Expression Omnibus dataset), 12 miRNAs were identified that related to PRMT1 overexpression and to asthma. The overexpression or knockdown of PRMT1 modulated the expression of the asthma-related miRNAs and their pri-miRNAs. Coimmunoprecipitation showed that PRMT1 formed a complex with STAT1 or RUNX1 and thus acted as a coactivator, stimulating the transcription of pri-miRNAs. Stimulation with TGF-β1 promoted the interaction of PRMT1 with STAT1 or RUNX1, thereby upregulating the transcription of two miRNAs: let-7i and miR-423. Subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that the binding of the PRMT1/STAT1 or PRMT1/RUNX1 coactivators to primary let-7i (pri-let-7i) and primary miR (pri-miR) 423 promoter was critical for pri-let-7i and pri-miR-423 transcription. This study describes a novel role of PRMT1 as a coactivator for STAT1 or RUNX1, which is essential for the transcription of pri-let-7i and pri-miR-423 in epithelial cells and might be relevant to epithelium dysfunction in asthma.
Knee osteoarthritis (KOA) is a highly prevalent disabling joint disease in aged people. Progressive cartilage degradation is the hallmark of KOA, but its deeper mechanism remains unclear. Substantial evidence indicates the importance of the synovium for joint homeostasis. The present study aimed to determine whether the synovium regulates cartilage metabolism through chondrogenesis-related microRNAs (miRNAs) in the KOA microenvironment. Clinical sample testing and in vitro cell experiments screened out miR-455 and miR-210 as effective miRNAs. The levels of both were significantly reduced in KOA cartilage but increased in KOA synovial fluid compared with controls. We further revealed that transforming growth factor β1 (TGF-β1) can significantly upregulate miR-455 and miR-210 expression in synoviocytes. The upregulated miRNAs can be secreted into the extracellular environment and prevent cartilage degeneration. Through bioinformatics and in vitro experiments, we found that Runx1 can bind to the promoter regions of miR-455 and miR-210 and enhance their transcription in TGF-β1-treated synoviocytes. Collectively, our findings demonstrate a protective effect of the synovium against cartilage degeneration mediated by chondrogenesis-related miRNAs, which suggests that Runx1 is a potential target for KOA therapy.
The reciprocal interactions between cancer cells and the quiescent fibroblasts leading to the activation of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) serve an important role in cancer progression. Here, we investigated the activation of transcription factors (TFs) in prostate fibroblasts (WPMY cell line) co-cultured with normal prostate or tumorous cells (RWPE1 and RWPE2 cell lines, respectively). After indirect co-cultures, we performed mRNA-seq and predicted TF activity using mRNA expression profiles with the Systems EPigenomics Inference of Regulatory Activity (SEPIRA) package and the GTEx and mRNA-seq data of 483 cultured fibroblasts. The initial differential expression analysis between time points and experimental conditions showed that co-culture with normal epithelial cells mainly promotes an inflammatory response in fibroblasts, whereas with the cancerous epithelial, it stimulates transformation by changing the expression of the genes associated with microfilaments. TF activity analysis revealed only one positively regulated TF in the RWPE1 co-culture alone, while we observed dysregulation of 45 TFs (7 decreased activity and 38 increased activity) uniquely in co-culture with RWPE2. Pathway analysis showed that these 45 dysregulated TFs in fibroblasts co-cultured with RWPE2 cells may be associated with the RUNX1 and PTEN pathways. Moreover, we showed that observed dysregulation could be associated with FER1L4 expression. We conclude that phenotypic changes in fibroblast responses to co-culturing with cancer epithelium result from orchestrated dysregulation of signaling pathways that favor their transformation and motility rather than proinflammatory status. This dysregulation can be observed both at the TF and transcriptome levels.
The t(8;21)(q22;q22) translocation is the most common chromosomal translocation in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and it gives rise to acute myeloid gene 1 (AML1)-myeloid transforming gene 8 (ETO)-positive AML, which has a relatively favorable prognosis. CD48 is a favorable prognosis factor that is downregulated in AML patients. AML can escape immunosurveillance of natural killer (NK) cells by decreasing CD48 expression. The correlation between AML1-ETO and CD48-mediated immune evasion is not well understood. Here, we show that AML1-ETO can increase CD48 expression, which is regulated by AML1-ETO/P300-mediated acetylation. AML1-ETO can inhibit AML immune escape from NK cell recognition and killing by increasing CD48 expression. This study describes a novel mechanism by which AML1-ETO can inhibit AML immune escape by increasing CD48 acetylation, thereby providing new evidence about AML patients with AML1-ETO oncogene infusion having better clinical outcomes.
Expression of long non-coding RNA KIAA0125 has been incorporated in various gene expression signatures for prognostic prediction in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients, yet its functions and clinical significance remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the clinical and biological characteristics of AML bearing different levels of KIAA0125. We profiled KIAA0125 expression levels in bone marrow cells from 347 de novo AML patients and found higher KIAA0125 expression was closely associated with RUNX1 mutation, but inversely correlated with t(8;21) and t(15;17) karyotypes. Among the 227 patients who received standard chemotherapy, those with higher KIAA0125 expression had a lower complete remission rate, shorter overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) than those with lower expression. The prognostic significance was validated in both TCGA and GSE12417 cohorts. Subgroup analyses showed that higher KIAA0125 expression also predicted shorter DFS and OS in patients with normal karyotype or non-M3 AML. In multivariable analysis, higher KIAA0125 expression remained an adverse risk factor independent of age, WBC counts, karyotypes, and mutation patterns. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that higher KIAA0125 expression was associated with hematopoietic and leukemic stem cell signatures and ATP-binding cassette transporters, two predisposing factors for chemoresistance.
BACKGROUND: Tight regulatory loops orchestrate commitment to B cell fate within bone marrow. Genetic lesions in this gene regulatory network underlie the emergence of the most common childhood cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The initial genetic hits, including the common translocation that fuses ETV6 and RUNX1 genes, lead to arrested cell differentiation. Here, we aimed to characterize transcription factor activities along the B-lineage differentiation trajectory as a reference to characterize the aberrant cell states present in leukemic bone marrow, and to identify those transcription factors that maintain cancer-specific cell states for more precise therapeutic intervention.METHODS: We compared normal B-lineage differentiation and in vivo leukemic cell states using single cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) and several complementary genomics profiles. Based on statistical tools for scRNA-seq, we benchmarked a workflow to resolve transcription factor activities and gene expression distribution changes in healthy bone marrow lymphoid cell states. We compared these to ALL bone marrow at diagnosis and in vivo during chemotherapy, focusing on leukemias carrying the ETV6-RUNX1 fusion.RESULTS: We show that lymphoid cell transcription factor activities uncovered from bone marrow scRNA-seq have high correspondence with independent ATAC- and ChIP-seq data. Using this comprehensive reference for regulatory factors coordinating B-lineage differentiation, our analysis of ETV6-RUNX1-positive ALL cases revealed elevated activity of multiple ETS-transcription factors in leukemic cells states, including the leukemia genome-wide association study hit ELK3. The accompanying gene expression changes associated with natural killer cell inactivation and depletion in the leukemic immune microenvironment. Moreover, our results suggest that the abundance of G1 cell cycle state at diagnosis and lack of differentiation-associated regulatory network changes during induction chemotherapy represent features of chemoresistance. To target the leukemic regulatory program and thereby overcome treatment resistance, we show that inhibition of ETS-transcription factors reduced cell viability and resolved pathways contributing to this using scRNA-seq.CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide a detailed picture of the transcription factor activities characterizing both normal B-lineage differentiation and those acquired in leukemic bone marrow and provide a rational basis for new treatment strategies targeting the immune microenvironment and the active regulatory network in leukemia.
RUNX1/RUNX1T1 is the most common fusion gene found in acute myeloid leukemia. Seminal contributions by many different research groups have revealed a complex regulatory network promoting leukemic self-renewal and propagation. Perturbation of RUNX1/RUNX1T1 levels and its DNA binding affects chromatin accessibility and transcription factor occupation at multiple gene loci associated with changes in gene expression levels. Exploration of this transcriptional program by targeted RNAi screens uncovered a crucial role of RUNX1/RUNX1T1 in cell cycle progression by regulating CCND2. This dependency results in a high vulnerability toward inhibitors of CDK4 and CDK6 and suggests new avenues for therapeutic intervention against acute myeloid leukemia.
Comment on    Blood. 2020 Nov 19;136(21):2373-2385.
DNA sequencing-based measurable residual disease (MRD) detection has shown to be clinically relevant in AML. However, the same methodology cannot be applied to fusion gene-driven subtypes of AML such as core-binding factor AML (CBF-AML). Here in this study, we evaluated the effectiveness of using DNA and RNA sequencing in MRD detection and in tracking clonal dynamics in CBF-AML. Using RNA-seq, we were able to quantify expression levels of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 and CBFB-MYH11 at diagnosis and their levels of reduction during remission (P < 6.3e-05 and P < 2.2e-13). The level of reduction of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 as measured by RNA-seq and qPCR were highly correlated (R2 = 0.74, P < 5.4e-05). A decision tree analysis, based on 3-log reduction of RUNX1-RUNX1T1 and cKIT-D816mut at diagnosis, stratified RUNX1-RUNX1T1 AML patients into three subgroups. These three subgroups had 2-year overall survival rates at 87%, 74%, and 33% (P < 0.08) and 2-year relapse incidence rates at 13%, 42%, and 67% (P < 0.05). On the other hand, although low residual allelic burden was common, it was not associated with long-term outcome, indicating that mutation clearance alone cannot be interpreted as MRD-negative. Overall, our study demonstrates that the clinical utility of RNA sequencing as a potential tool for MRD monitoring in fusion gene-driven AML such as RUNX1-RUNX1T1 AML.
Tissue-resident macrophages (ResMϕ) play important roles in the normal development and physiological functions as well as tissue repair and immune/inflammatory response to both internal and external insults. In cornea, ResMϕ are critical to the homeostasis and maintenance, wound healing, ocular immune privilege, and immune/inflammatory response to injury and microbial infection. However, the roles of microRNAs in corneal ResMϕ are utterly unknown. Previously, we demonstrated that the conserved miR-183/96/182 cluster (miR-183/96/182) plays important roles in sensory neurons and subgroups of both innate and adaptive immune cells and modulates corneal response to bacterial infection. In this study, we provide direct evidence that the mouse corneal ResMϕ constitutively produce both IL-17f and IL-10. This function is regulated by miR-183/96/182 through targeting Runx1 and Maf, key transcriptional regulators for IL-17f and IL-10 expression, respectively. In addition, we show that miR-183/96/182 has a negative feedback regulation on the TLR4 pathway in mouse corneal ResMϕ. Furthermore, miR-183/96/182 regulates the number of corneal ResMϕ. Inactivation of miR-183/96/182 in mouse results in more steady-state corneal resident immune cells, including ResMϕ, and leads to a simultaneous early upregulation of innate IL-17f and IL-10 production in the cornea after Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Its multiplex regulations on the simultaneous production of IL-17f and IL-10, TLR4 signaling pathway and the number of corneal ResMϕ place miR-183/96/182 in the center of corneal innate immunity, which is key to the homeostasis of the cornea, ocular immune privilege, and the corneal response to microbial infections.
Severe congenital neutropenia (SCN) patients treated with CSF3/G-CSF to alleviate neutropenia frequently develop acute myeloid leukemia (AML). A common pattern of leukemic transformation involves the appearance of hematopoietic clones with CSF3 receptor (CSF3R) mutations in the neutropenic phase, followed by mutations in RUNX1 before AML becomes overt. To investigate how the combination of CSF3 therapy and CSF3R and RUNX1 mutations contributes to AML development, we make use of mouse models, SCN-derived induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), and SCN and SCN-AML patient samples. CSF3 provokes a hyper-proliferative state in CSF3R/RUNX1 mutant hematopoietic progenitors but does not cause overt AML. Intriguingly, an additional acquired driver mutation in Cxxc4 causes elevated CXXC4 and reduced TET2 protein levels in murine AML samples. Expression of multiple pro-inflammatory pathways is elevated in mouse AML and human SCN-AML, suggesting that inflammation driven by downregulation of TET2 activity is a critical step in the malignant transformation of SCN.
DOI: 10.1097/HS9.0000000000000489PMCID: PMC7665249PMID: 33204999
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, the Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450008, China.(2)Department of Hematology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanyang Medical College, Nanyang 473000, China.(3)Department of Hematology, Xinhua District Hospital of Pingdingshan City, Pingdingshan 467000, China.(4)Department of Hematology, Pingdingshan First People's Hospital, Pingdingshan 467000, China.
The AML1-ETO oncoprotein, which results from t(8;21) translocation, is considered an initial event of t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, the precise mechanisms of the oncogenic activity of AML1-ETO is yet to be fully determined. The present study demonstrates that AML1-ETO triggers the heterochromatic silencing of microRNA-564 (miR564) by binding at the AML1 binding site along the miR564 promoter region and recruiting chromatin-remodeling enzymes. Suppression of miR564 enhances the oncogenic activity of the AML1-ETO oncoprotein by directly inhibiting the expression of CCND1 and the DNMT3A genes. Ectopic expression of miR564 can induce retardation of G1/S transition, reperform differentiation, promote apoptosis, as well as inhibit the proliferation and colony formation of AML1-ETO+ leukemia cells in vitro. Enhanced miR564 levels can significantly inhibit the tumor proliferation of t(8;21)AML in vivo. We first identify an unexpected and important epigenetic circuitry of AML1-ETO/miR564/CCND1/DNMT3A that contributes to the leukemogenesis in vitro/vivo of AML1-ETO+ leukemia, indicating that miR564 enhancement could provide a potential therapeutic method for AML1-ETO+ leukemia.
Pearson syndrome (PS) is a very rare and often fatal multisystem disease caused by deletions in mitochondrial DNA that result in sideroblastic anemia, vacuolization of marrow precursors, and pancreatic dysfunction. Spontaneous recovery from anemia is often observed within several years of diagnosis. We present the case of a 4-month-old male diagnosed with PS who experienced prolonged severe pancytopenia preceding the emergence of monosomy 7. Whole-exome sequencing identified two somatic mutations, including RUNX1 p.S100F that was previously reported as associated with myeloid malignancies. The molecular defects associated with PS may have the potential to progress to advanced myelodysplastic syndrome .
Germline mutations are congenital genetic mutations in germ cells that originate from sperm or ovum and are generally incorporated into every cell of the offspring's body. Somatic mutations are acquired genetic mutations that form under the influence of environmental factors during embryo formation and epigenetic development. Generally, only a portion of the cells in the human body have the same somatic mutations. Clinical detection of germline mutations is intended to determine inherited malignancies and identify high‑risk families, and detection of somatic mutation is proposed to find targeted drugs, monitor tumor loading for guided therapy, and evaluate prognosis. Large‑scale population cohort studies have shown that germline mutations are closely related to the occurrence, development, and prognosis of diseases. Patients with cancer‑predisposition germline mutations can be used as sentinels in high‑risk families. Traditional histopathology is no longer enough to identify types of cancers. Even within a particular type of tumor, there is great heterogeneity between internal molecules. The Pan‑Cancer Research Program as well as other projects seek to use large quantities of data from different types of tumor research databases to carry out integrated analysis in order to establish potential non‑tumor‑specific tumor markers and targets by increasing the sample size to identify more molecular mechanisms. This review intends to summarize some of the relevant mechanisms underlying germline mutations in blood disorders.
Through genome-wide association studies (GWAS), multiple inherited predispositions to acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) have been identified in children. Most recently, a novel susceptibility locus at ERG was localized, exhibiting Hispanic-specific manner. In this study, we conducted a replication study to in all-age Chinese patients (N = 451), not only validating the novel ERG locus, but also systematically determining the impact of age on association status of the top GWAS signals. We found that single nucleotide polymorphisms at ARID5B, IKZF1, CEBPE, PIP4K2A were only significantly associated with ALL susceptibility in childhood patients with no BCR-ABL fusion, while GATA3 signal exhibited its significance in adults no matter carrying BCR-ABL fusion or not. Moreover, the novel ERG SNP can be validated in pediatric patients without both BCR-ABL and ETV6-RUNX1 fusion. Our finding suggests the modifying effects of age on genetic predisposition to ALL, and highlights the impact of ERG SNP in Chinese patients.
BACKGROUND: Identification of genomic alterations present in cancer patients may aid in cancer diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutic target discovery. In this study, we aimed to identify clinically actionable variants present in stage IV breast cancer (BC) samples.MATERIALS AND METHODS: DNA was extracted from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples of BC (n = 41). DNA was sequenced using MammaSeq, a BC-specific next-generation sequencing panel targeting 79 genes and 1369 mutations. Ion Torrent Suite 4.0 was used to make variant calls on the raw data, and the resulting single nucleotide variants were annotated using the CRAVAT toolkit. Single nucleotide variations (SNVs) were filtered to remove common polymorphisms and germline variants. CNVkit was employed to identify copy number variations (CNVs). The Precision Medicine Knowledgebase (PMKB) and OncoKB Precision Oncology Database were used to associate clinical significance with the identified variants.RESULTS: A total of 41 samples from Turkish patients with BC were sequenced (read depth of 94-13,340; median of 1529). These patients were diagnosed with various BC subtypes including invasive ductal carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma, apocrine BC, and micropapillary BC. In total, 59 different alterations (49 SNVs and 10 CNVs) were identified. From these, 8 alterations (3 CNVs - ERBB2, FGFR1, and AR copy number gains and 5 SNVs - IDH1.R132H, TP53.E204∗, PI3KCA.E545K, PI3KCA.H1047R, and PI3KCA.R88Q) were identified to have some clinical significance by PMKB and OncoKB. Moreover, the top 5 genes with the most SNVs included PIK3CA, TP53, MAP3K1, ATM, and NCOR1. Additionally, copy number gains and losses were found in ERBB2, GRB7, IGFR1, AR, FGFR1, MYC, and IKBKB, and BRCA2, RUNX1, and RB1, respectively.CONCLUSION: We identified 59 unique alterations in 38 genes in 41 stage IV BC tissue samples using MammaSeqTM. Eight of these alterations were found to have some clinical significance by OncoKB and PKMB. This study highlights the potential use of cancer specific next-generation sequencing panels in clinic to get better insight into the patient-specific genomic alterations.
The extremely high proliferation rate of tumor cells contributes to pancreatic cancer (PC) progression. Runt-related transcription factor 1(RUNX1), a key factor in hematopoiesis that was correlated with tumor progression. However, the role of RUNX1 in PC proliferation was still unclear. We found that RUNX1 was significantly upregulated in PC tissues and its expression was negatively associated with prognosis of PC patients in a multicenter analysis according to immunohistochemical (IHC). RUNX1 downregulation in PC resulted in a significantly reduced cell proliferation rate, which was consistent with in vivo subcutaneous tumor formation assay results. RNA-seq and ChIP-seq results revealed that a portion of target genes, including HAP1, GPRC5B, PTPN21, VHL and EN2, were regulated by RUNX1, a finding successfully validated by ChIP-qPCR, qRT-PCR and Western blot. Subsequently, IHC and proliferation assays showed these target genes to be dysregulated in PC, affecting tumor growth. Our data suggest that RUNX1 plays an oncogenic role in tumor proliferation and is a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for PC.
Glioma is a prevalent primary brain tumor. Temozolomide (TMZ) has been used to treat glioma. However, the resistance of TMZ to glioma poses heavy burden to glioma treatment. In this study, the effects of glioma resistance to TMZ and underlying mechanism were revealed. The expression levels of circ-VPS18, microRNA-370 (miR-370) and runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The protein expression of RUNX1, multidrug resistance-associated protein 1 (MRP1), and multi-drug resistance gene-1 (MDR1) was determined by western blot. The functional effects of circ-VPS18 knockdown on TMZ sensitivity and glioma progression were revealed by cell counting kit-8 proliferation (CCK-8), flow cytometry, and transwell assays. The impacts of circ-VPS18 deletion on TMZ sensitivity in vivo were illustrated by in vivo tumor formation assay. The binding relationship between miR-370 and circ-VPS18 or RUNX1 was predicted by starBase v2.0 online database and identified by dual-luciferase reporter assay. Circ-VPS18 expression and the mRNA and protein levels of RUNX1 were dramatically upregulated, and miR-370 expression was significantly downregulated in glioma cells, TMZ-resistant glioma tissues, or tissue compared with control groups. Functionally, circ-VPS18 knockdown improved TMZ sensitivity, induced cell apoptosis, whereas repressed cell viability, migration and invasion in U251/TR and LN229/TR cells, which was reversed by miR-370 inhibitor. Additionally, RUNX1 overexpression hindered the effects of miR-370 on TMZ sensitivity and glioma progression. Circ-VPS18 knockdown enhanced TMZ sensitivity in vivo. Mechanistically, circ-VPS18 functioned as a sponge of miR-370 and miR-370 targeted RUNX1. Circ-VPS18 knockdown improved TMZ sensitivity and repressed glioma progression by sponging miR-370 to downregulate RUNX1 expression, which provided a new insight in further studying glioma resistance to TMZ.
IL-13 plays a critical role in mediating many biological processes responsible for allergic inflammation. Mast cells express Il13 mRNA and produce IL-13 protein in response to antigenic stimulation. Enhancers are essential in promoting gene transcription and are thought to activate transcription by delivering essential accessory cofactors to the promoter to potentiate gene transcription. However, enhancers mediating Il13 have not been identified. Furthermore, which Il13 enhancers detect signals triggered by antigenic stimulation have not yet been defined. In this study, we identified potential mouse Il13 enhancers using histone modification monomethylation at lysine residue 4 on histone 3 (H3K4me1) chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and acetylation at lysine residue 27 on histone 3 (H3K27ac) chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing. We used Omni-assay for transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing to determine which accessible regions within the potential Il13 enhancers that responded to IgE receptor crosslinking. We also demonstrated that the transcription factor cluster consisting of the NFATC2, STAT5, GATA2, AP1, and RUNX1 binding sites at the proximal Il13 enhancer and the transcription factor cluster consisting of the EGR2 binding site at the distal Il13 E+6.5 enhancer are critical in sensing the signals triggered by antigenic stimulation. Those enhancers, which are responsive to antigenic stimulation and are constitutively active, cooperate to generate greater transcriptional outputs. Our study reveals a novel mechanism underlying how antigenic stimulation induces robust Il13 mRNA expression in mouse mast cells.
Malignant rhabdoid tumor (MRT) is a rare and highly aggressive pediatric malignancy primarily affecting infants and young children. Intensive multimodal therapies currently given to MRT patients are not sufficiently potent to control this highly malignant tumor. Therefore, additive or alternative therapy for these patients with a poor prognosis is necessary. We herein demonstrated that the inhibition of runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) by novel alkylating conjugated pyrrole-imidazole (PI) polyamides, which specifically recognize and bind to RUNX-binding DNA sequences, was highly effective in the treatment of rhabdoid tumor cell lines in vitro as well as in an in vivo mouse model. Therefore, suppression of RUNX1 activity may be a novel strategy for MRT therapy.
Nuclear protein in testis (NUT) carcinoma (NUT-C) is an exceedingly rare and aggressive squamous tumor characterized by an acquired rearrangement of the NUT gene involving the NUTM1 (Nut midline carcinoma, family member 1, NUT) gene encoding the nuclear protein of the testis on 15q14. As a rare tumor, there is little information available on the clinicopathologic and molecular cytogenetic findings of NMC. We herein reported a case of a 69-year-old man diagnosed with lung NMC involving the rearrangement of chromosomal region 15q14 harboring the NUTM1 gene. It was exceptionally rare for the patient's involving of the lung but having the chance to be totally resected. After radical surgery, the patient accepted further four cycles of chemotherapy and remains disease-free after 10 months. The immunohistochemical staining of PDL1 was negative and next-generation sequencing technology identified genomic alterations in discoidin domain receptor tyrosine kinase 2 (DDR2), cyclin D1 (CCND1), B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 1 (BCL1), colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R), runt related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and death domain-associated protein 6 (DAXX6) from the paraffin-embedded tissue. This case will contribute to not only a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of the primary pulmonary NUT carcinomas but also the potential therapeutic option for the patient.
BACKGROUND: Myelodysplastic syndromes and acute leukemias after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) are mainly caused by recurrence of the primitive leukemic clones. More rarely, they originate from donor hematopoietic stem cells, developing the so-called donor cell leukemia (DCL) or myelodysplastic syndromes (DC-MDSs). DCL and DC-MDS can be considered as an in vivo model of leukemogenesis, and even if the pathogenetic mechanisms remain speculative, a genetic predisposition of donor progenitor cells, an altered host microenvironment, and the impairment of immune surveillance are considered the main causes.CASE PRESENTATION: We report a case of DC-MDS diagnosed 5 years after an allo-SCT from a matched related donor (patient's sister) in a patient with Philadelphia chromosome-positive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ B-ALL). The sex-mismatch allowed us to identify the donor cell origin. At the onset, the DC-MDS was characterized by chromosome seven monosomy and NRAS, RUNX1, and BCOR mutations. Because of a familiar history of colorectal neoplasia and the variant allele frequency (VAF) of NRAS mutation at the onset, this mutation was searched on germline DNA in both the donor and the recipient, but the result was negative. Moreover, after transplant (+4 months), the patient developed severe and long-lasting chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD), requiring multiple lines of treatments. Because of the severe immunosuppression, recurrent infections occurred and, lately, the patient died due to septic shock.CONCLUSION: This case report highlights the need, whenever possible, to evaluate the donor origin of the posttransplant myelodysplasia and acute leukemias. The potential key role of the impaired immune surveillance and of long-lasting immunosuppression appears to be emerging in the development of this case of DC-MDS. Finally, this case reminds the importance to investigate the familiar genetic predisposition in donors with a familiar history of neoplasia.
Tumor progression and metastasis are still major burdens for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is involved in aggressive phenotypes in several cancers, while the molecular role of RUNX1 underlying cancer progression and metastasis of HNSCC remains largely unknown. In our study, RUNX1 expression was increased with disease progression in patients with HNSCC. The silencing of RUNX1 significantly decelerated the malignant progression of HNSCC cells, reduced osteopontin (OPN) expression in vitro and weakened the tumorigenicity of HNSCC cells in vivo. Moreover, we demonstrated that RUNX1 activated the mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling by directly binding to the promoter of OPN in tumor progression and metastasis of HNSCC. Our results may provide new insight into the mechanisms underlying the role of RUNX1 in tumor progression and metastasis and reveal the potential therapeutic target in HNSCC.
The authors' previous study demonstrated that miR‑128 may exert an inhibitory effect on the osteogenic differentiation of bone marrow‑derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM‑MSCs), but its downstream mechanisms remain to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to investigate the microRNA (miRNA/miR) and mRNA profiles of differentiated and undifferentiated BM‑MSCs and explore new downstream targets for miR‑128. The sequencing datasets of GSE107279 (miRNA) and GSE112318 (mRNA) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. The differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) and genes (DEGs) were identified using the DESeq2 method. The target genes of DEMs were predicted by the miRwalk 2.0 database. The hub target genes of miR‑128 were screened by constructing the protein‑protein interaction (PPI) network and module analysis. The expression levels of miR‑128 and crucial target genes were validated by reverse transcription‑quantitative (RT‑q) PCR before or after transfection of miR‑128 mimics to BM‑MSCs. The miRNA expression profile analysis identified miR‑128 as one of the significantly downregulated DEMs (total 338) in differentiated BM‑MSCs compared with the undifferentiated control. A total of 103 predicted target genes of miR‑128‑3p were overlapped with upregulated DEGs. By calculating the topological properties of each protein in the PPI network, 6 upregulated genes (KIT, NTRK2, YWHAB, GAB1, AXIN1 and RUNX1; fold change was the highest for NTRK2) were considered to be hub genes. Of these, 4 were enriched in module 4 (RUNX1, KIT, GAB1 and AXIN1; RUNX1 was particularly crucial as it can interact with the others), while one was enriched in module 7 (YWHAB). The expression levels of miR‑128 and these 6 target genes during the osteogenic differentiation were experimentally confirmed by RT‑qPCR. In addition, the expression levels of these 6 genes were significantly reversed after transfection of miR‑128‑3p mimics into rat BM‑MSCs compared with the miR‑control group. These findings indicated that miR‑128‑3p may inhibit the osteoblast differentiation of BM‑MSCs by downregulation of these 6 genes, particularly RUNX1, YWHAB and NTRK2.
CEBPA and c-MYC genes belong to TF and play an essential role in hematologic malignancies development. Furthermore, these genes also co-regulate with RUNX1 and lead to bone marrow differentiation and may contribute to the leukemic transformation. Understanding the function and full characteristics of selected genes in the group of patients with AML can be helpful in assessing prognosis, and their usefulness as prognostic factors can be revealed. The aim of the study was to evaluate CEBPA and c-MYC mRNA expression level and to seek their association with demographical and clinical features of AML patients such as: age, gender, FAB classification, mortality or leukemia cell karyotype. Obtained results were also correlated with the expression level of the RUNX gene family. To assess of relative gene expression level the qPCR method was used. The expression levels of CEBPA and c-MYC gene varied among patients. Neither CEBPA nor c-MYC expression levels differed significantly between women and men (p=0.8325 and p=0.1698, respectively). No statistically significant correlation between age at the time of diagnosis and expression of CEBPA (p=0.4314) or c-MYC (p=0.9524) was stated. There were no significant associations between relative CEBPA (p=0.4247) or c-MYC (p=0.4655) expression level and FAB subtype and mortality among the enrolled patients (p=0.5858 and p=0.8437, respectively). However, it was observed that c-MYC and RUNX1 expression levels were significantly positively correlated (rS=0.328, p=0.0411). Overall, AML pathogenesis involves a complex interaction among CEBPA, c-MYC and RUNX family genes.
Acquired aplastic anemia and severe congenital neutropenia (SCN) are bone marrow (BM) failure syndromes of different origin, however, they share a common risk for secondary leukemic transformation. Here, we present a patient with severe aplastic anemia (SAA) evolving to secondary chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL; SAA-CNL). We show that SAA-CNL shares multiple somatic driver mutations in CSF3R, RUNX1, and EZH2/SUZ12 with cases of SCN that transformed to myelodysplastic syndrome or acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This molecular connection between SAA-CNL and SCN progressing to AML (SCN-AML) prompted us to perform a comparative transcriptome analysis on nonleukemic CD34high hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, which showed transcriptional profiles that resemble indicative of interferon-driven proinflammatory responses. These findings provide further insights in the mechanisms underlying leukemic transformation in BM failure syndromes.
BACKGROUNDInterpatient differences in the accumulation of methotrexate's active polyglutamylated metabolites (MTXPGs) in leukemia cells influence its antileukemic effects.METHODSTo identify genomic and epigenomic and patient variables determining the intracellular accumulation of MTXPGs, we measured intracellular MTXPG levels in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells from 388 newly diagnosed patients after in vivo high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX) (1 g/m2) treatment, defined ALL subtypes, and assessed genomic and epigenomic variants influencing folate pathway genes (mRNA, miRNA, copy number alterations [CNAs], SNPs, single nucleotide variants [SNVs], CpG methylation).RESULTSWe documented greater than 100-fold differences in MTXPG levels, which influenced its antileukemic effects (P = 4 × 10-5). Three ALL subtypes had lower MTXPG levels (T cell ALL [T-ALL] and B cell ALL [B-ALL] with the TCF3-PBX1 or ETV6-RUNX1 fusions), and 2 subtypes had higher MTXPG levels (hyperdiploid and BCR-ABL like). The folate pathway genes SLC19A1, ABCC1, ABCC4, FPGS, and MTHFD1 significantly influenced intracellular MTXPG levels (P = 2.9 × 10-3 to 3.7 × 10-8). A multivariable model including the ALL subtype (P = 1.1 × 10-14), the SLC19A1/(ABCC1 + ABCC4) transporter ratio (P = 3.6 × 10-4), the MTX infusion time (P = 1.5 × 10-3), FPGS mRNA expression (P = 2.1 × 10-3), and MTX systemic clearance (P = 4.4 × 10-2) explained 42% of the variation in MTXPG accumulation (P = 1.1 × 10-38). Model simulations indicated that a longer infusion time (24 h vs. 4 h) was superior in achieving higher intracellular MTXPG levels across all subtypes if ALL.CONCLUSIONSThese findings provide insights into mechanisms underlying interpatient differences in intracellular accumulation of MTXPG in leukemia cells and its antileukemic effectsFUNDINGTHE National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the Institute of General Medical Sciences of the NIH, the Basque Government Programa Posdoctoral de Perfeccionamiento de Personal Investigador doctor, and the American Lebanese Syrian Associated Charities (ALSAC).
Author information:(1)Department of Hematology, Nagoya University Hospital.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive cancer that progresses rapidly with a poor prognosis. Cytogenetic analysis provides the most accurate determination of diagnosis and prognosis however, about 42-48% of AML patients have a cytogenetically normal karyotype. Genetic analysis can provide further information and the identification of new mutations could result in improved risk stratification, prognosis and better understanding of the mechanisms of AML leukaemogenesis. In this study, we analyzed genetic alterations in 16 human AML cases by Haloplex sequencing with confirmation of two previously unreported mutations in the genes DNMT3A and RUNX1 by Sanger sequencing or pyrosequencing. The two novel mutations consist of two frameshift mutations identified in two different AML patients and reported as deleterious by bioinformatic analysis. These mutations confirm the exclusion and co-occurrence of specific gene mutation patterns in AML and may provide further information for patient diagnosis and prognosis.
