BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder with progressive symptoms, seriously endangers human health worldwide. AD diagnosis and treatment are challenging, but molecular biomarkers show diagnostic potential. This study aimed to investigate AD biomarkers in the peripheral blood.METHOD: Utilizing three microarray datasets, we systematically analyzed the differences in expression and predictive value of mitophagy-related hub genes (MRHGs) in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with AD to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers. Subsequently, a protein-protein interaction network was constructed to identify hub genes, and functional enrichment analyses were performed. Using consistent clustering analysis, AD subtypes with significant differences were determined. Finally, infiltration patterns of immune cells in AD subtypes and the relationship between MRHGs and immune cells were investigated by two algorithms, CIBERSORT and single-sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA).RESULTS: Our study identified 53 AD- and mitophagy-related differentially expressed genes and six MRHGs, which may be potential biomarkers for diagnosing AD. Functional analysis revealed that six MRHGs significantly affected biologically relevant functions and signaling pathways such as IL-4 Signaling Pathway, RUNX3 Regulates Notch Signaling Pathway, IL-1 and Megakaryocytes in Obesity Pathway, and Overview of Leukocyteintrinsic Hippo Pathway. Furthermore, CIBERSORT and ssGSEA algorithms were used for all AD samples to analyze the abundance of infiltrating immune cells in the two disease subtypes. The results showed that these subtypes were significantly related to immune cell types such as activated mast cells, regulatory T cells, M0 macrophages, and neutrophils. Moreover, specific MRHGs were significantly correlated with immune cell levels.CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that MRHGs may contribute to the development and prognosis of AD. The six identified MRHGs could be used as valuable diagnostic biomarkers for further research on AD. This study may provide new promising diagnostic and therapeutic targets in the peripheral blood of patients with AD.
Deregulation of lemur tyrosine kinase 2 (LMTK2) is a vital determinant for the onset and progression of malignancies, yet the relationship between LMTK2 and glioblastoma (GBM) is undetermined. This study was carried out to determine the relevance of LMTK2 in GBM. Initiating investigation by assessing The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data showed LMTK2 mRNA levels were decreased in GBM tissue. Later examination of clinical specimens confirmed low levels of LMTK2 mRNA and protein in GBM tissue. The downregulated level of LMTK2 in patients with GBM was related to poor overall survival. A suppressive function of LMTK2 on the proliferative capability and metastatic potential of GBM cells was demonstrated by overexpressing LMTK2 in GBM cell lines. Moreover, the restoration of LMTK2 augmented the sensitivity of GBM cells to the chemotherapy drug temozolomide. The mechanistic investigation uncovered LMTK2 as a regulator of the runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3)/Notch signaling pathway. The overexpression of LMTK2 increased the expression of RUNX3 while inhibiting the activation of Notch signaling. The silencing of RUNX3 diminished the regulatory role of LMTK2 on Notch signaling. The inhibition of Notch signaling reversed the LMTK2-silencing-elicited protumor effects. Importantly, LMTK2-overexpressed GBM cells displayed weakened tumorigenicity in xenograft models. Our findings illustrate that LMTK2 has a tumor-inhibition function in GBM by constraining Notch signaling via RUNX3. This work indicates the deregulation of the LMTK2-mediated RUNX3/Notch signaling pathway may be a novel molecular mechanism for the malignant transformation of GBMs. This work highlights the interest in LMTK2-related approaches for treating GBM.
The integrin CD49a marks highly cytotoxic epidermal-tissue-resident memory (TRM) cells, but their differentiation from circulating populations remains poorly defined. We demonstrate enrichment of RUNT family transcription-factor-binding motifs in human epidermal CD8+CD103+CD49a+ TRM cells, paralleled by high RUNX2 and RUNX3 protein expression. Sequencing of paired skin and blood samples revealed clonal overlap between epidermal CD8+CD103+CD49a+ TRM cells and circulating memory CD8+CD45RA-CD62L+ T cells. In vitro stimulation of circulating CD8+CD45RA-CD62L+ T cells with IL-15 and TGF-β induced CD49a expression and cytotoxic transcriptional profiles in a RUNX2- and RUNX3-dependent manner. We therefore identified a reservoir of circulating cells with cytotoxic TRM potential. In melanoma patients, high RUNX2, but not RUNX3, transcription correlated with a cytotoxic CD8+CD103+CD49a+ TRM cell signature and improved patient survival. Together, our results indicate that combined RUNX2 and RUNX3 activity promotes the differentiation of cytotoxic CD8+CD103+CD49a+ TRM cells, providing immunosurveillance of infected and malignant cells.
BACKGROUND: Short structural variants (SSVs), including insertions/deletions (indels), are common in the human genome and impact disease risk. The role of SSVs in late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) has been understudied. In this study, we developed a bioinformatics pipeline of SSVs within LOAD-genome-wide association study (GWAS) regions to prioritize regulatory SSVs based on the strength of their predicted effect on transcription factor (TF) binding sites.METHODS: The pipeline utilized publicly available functional genomics data sources including candidate cis-regulatory elements (cCREs) from ENCODE and single-nucleus (sn)RNA-seq data from LOAD patient samples.RESULTS: We catalogued 1581 SSVs in candidate cCREs in LOAD GWAS regions that disrupted 737 TF sites. That included SSVs that disrupted the binding of RUNX3, SPI1, and SMAD3, within the APOE-TOMM40, SPI1, and MS4A6A LOAD regions.CONCLUSIONS: The pipeline developed here prioritized non-coding SSVs in cCREs and characterized their putative effects on TF binding. The approach integrates multiomics datasets for validation experiments using disease models.
Bisphenol A (BPA) has a number of adverse effects on the reproductive development of females. In particular, the mechanism of disruption of ovarian development in adolescent mice is still unclear. Based on transcriptome sequencing results, a differentially expressed lncRNA, Fhad1os2, was detected in the ovaries of BPA-exposed pubertal mice. In our study, the lncRNA Fhad1os2, localized in the ovarian granulosa cell cytoplasm, could regulate the proliferation of mouse ovarian granulosa cells. Mechanistically, the results of RNA pull-down experiments as well as mass spectrometry analysis showed that ERα, an interfering signaling molecule of BPA, could directly bind lncRNA Fhad1os2 and decrease the transcription of lncRNA Fhad1os2 in response to the estrogen-like effect of BPA. BPA exposure also caused abnormal lncRNA Fhad1os2 pulldown protein-related signaling pathways in the ovaries of adolescent mice. Furthermore, lncRNA Fhad1os2 interacted with RUNX3, a transcription factor related to follicle development and hormone synthesis. As a negative regulator, lncRNA Fhad1os2 transactivated the expression of Runx3, which in turn induced RUNX3 to positively regulate aromatase (Cyp19a1) expression in mouse ovarian granulosa cells and promote estrogen synthesis. In conclusion, our study indicates that BPA exposure interferes with ERα-regulated lncRNA Fhad1os2 interactions with RUNX3 in pubertal mice, affecting estrogen synthesis in mouse granulosa cells and contributing to premature ovarian maturation in pubertal mice.
Corticosteroids act on the glucocorticoid receptor (GR; NR3C1) to resolve inflammation and are routinely prescribed to breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy treatment to alleviate side effects. Triple negative breast cancers (TNBCs) account for 15-20% of diagnoses and lack expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors as well as amplified HER2, but often express high GR levels. GR is a mediator of TNBC progression to advanced metastatic disease, however the mechanisms underpinning this transition to more aggressive behavior remain elusive. We previously showed that tissue/cellular stress (hypoxia, chemotherapies) as well as factors in the tumor microenvironment (TGFβ, HGF) activate p38 MAPK, which phosphorylates GR on Ser134. In the absence of ligand, p-Ser134-GR further upregulates genes important for responses to cellular stress, including key components of the p38 MAPK pathway. Herein, we show that p-Ser134-GR is required for TNBC metastatic colonization to the lungs of female mice. To understand the mechanisms of p-Ser134-GR action in the presence of GR agonists, we examined glucocorticoid-driven transcriptomes in CRISPR knock-in models of TNBC cells expressing wild-type or phospho-mutant (S134A) GR. We identified dexamethasone- and p-Ser134-GR-dependent regulation of specific gene sets controlling TNBC migration (NEDD9, CSF1, RUNX3) and metabolic adaptation (PDK4, PGK1, PFKFB4). TNBC cells harboring S134A-GR displayed metabolic reprogramming that was phenocopied by PDK4 knockdown. PDK4 knockdown or chemical inhibition also blocked cancer cell migration. Our results reveal a convergence of GR agonists (i.e., host stress) with cellular stress signaling whereby pSer134-GR critically regulates TNBC metabolism, an exploitable target for the treatment of this deadly disease.
Natural killer (NK) cells are an essential part of the innate immune system that helps control infections and tumors. Recent studies have shown that Vorinostat, a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, can cause significant changes in gene expression and signaling pathways in NK cells. Since gene expression in eukaryotic cells is closely linked to the complex three-dimensional (3D) chromatin architecture, an integrative analysis of the transcriptome, histone profiling, chromatin accessibility, and 3D genome organization is needed to gain a more comprehensive understanding of how Vorinostat impacts transcription regulation of NK cells from a chromatin-based perspective. The results demonstrate that Vorinostat treatment reprograms the enhancer landscapes of the human NK-92 NK cell line while overall 3D genome organization remains largely stable. Moreover, we identified that the Vorinostat-induced RUNX3 acetylation is linked to the increased enhancer activity, leading to elevated expression of immune response-related genes via long-range enhancerpromoter chromatin interactions. In summary, these findings have important implications in the development of new therapies for cancer and immune-related diseases by shedding light on the mechanisms underlying Vorinostat's impact on transcriptional regulation in NK cells within the context of 3D enhancer network.
Mesenchymal chondrosarcoma affects adolescents and young adults, and most cases usually have the HEY1::NCOA2 fusion gene. However, the functional role of HEY1-NCOA2 in the development and progression of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma remains largely unknown. This study aimed to clarify the functional role of HEY1-NCOA2 in transformation of the cell of origin and induction of typical biphasic morphology of mesenchymal chondrosarcoma. We generated a mouse model for mesenchymal chondrosarcoma by introducing HEY1-NCOA2 into mouse embryonic superficial zone (eSZ) followed by subcutaneous transplantation into nude mice. HEY1-NCOA2 expression in eSZ cells successfully induced subcutaneous tumors in 68.9% of recipients, showing biphasic morphologies and expression of Sox9, a master regulator of chondrogenic differentiation. ChIP sequencing analyses indicated frequent interaction between HEY1-NCOA2 binding peaks and active enhancers. Runx2, which is important for differentiation and proliferation of the chondrocytic lineage, is invariably expressed in mouse mesenchymal chondrosarcoma, and interaction between HEY1-NCOA2 and Runx2 is observed using NCOA2 C-terminal domains. Although Runx2 knockout resulted in significant delay in tumor onset, it also induced aggressive growth of immature small round cells. Runx3, which is also expressed in mesenchymal chondrosarcoma and interacts with HEY1-NCOA2, replaced the DNA-binding property of Runx2 only in part. Treatment with the HDAC inhibitor panobinostat suppressed tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo, abrogating expression of genes downstream of HEY1-NCOA2 and Runx2. In conclusion, HEY1::NCOA2 expression modulates the transcriptional program in chondrogenic differentiation, affecting cartilage-specific transcription factor functions.
Since idiopathic scoliosis is a multifactorial disorder, the proprioceptive defect is considered one of its etiological factors. Genetic studies have separately revealed this relationship, yet it remains indeterminate which specific genes that related to proprioception contributed to the initiation, progression, pathology, and treatment outcomes of the curvature. A systematic search was conducted on four online databases, including PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, and Academic search complete. Studies were included if they involved human or animal subjects with idiopathic scoliosis and evaluated with proprioceptive genes. The search period was the inception of the database to February 21, 2023. Four genes (i.e., Ladybird homeobox 1 [LBX1], Piezo type mechanosensitive ion channel component 2 [PIEZO2], Runx family transcription factor 3 [RUNX3], and neurotrophin 3 [NTF3]) investigated in 19 studies were included. LBX1 has confirmed the correlation with the development of idiopathic scoliosis in 10 ethnicities, whereas PIEZO2 has shown a connection with clinical proprioceptive tests in subjects with idiopathic scoliosis. However, curve severity was less likely to be related to the proprioceptive genes. The potential pathology took place at the proprioceptive neurons. Evidence of proprioception-related gene mutations in association with idiopathic scoliosis was established. Nevertheless, the causation between the initiation, progression, and treatment outcomes with proprioceptive defect requires further investigation.
Vagal sensory neurons monitor mechanical and chemical stimuli in the gastrointestinal tract. Major efforts are underway to assign physiological functions to the many distinct subtypes of vagal sensory neurons. Here, we use genetically guided anatomical tracing, optogenetics, and electrophysiology to identify and characterize vagal sensory neuron subtypes expressing Prox2 and Runx3 in mice. We show that three of these neuronal subtypes innervate the esophagus and stomach in regionalized patterns, where they form intraganglionic laminar endings. Electrophysiological analysis revealed that they are low-threshold mechanoreceptors but possess different adaptation properties. Lastly, genetic ablation of Prox2 and Runx3 neurons demonstrated their essential roles for esophageal peristalsis in freely behaving mice. Our work defines the identity and function of the vagal neurons that provide mechanosensory feedback from the esophagus to the brain and could lead to better understanding and treatment of esophageal motility disorders.
The RUNX transcription factors are frequently dysregulated in human cancers, suggesting their potential as attractive targets for drug treatment. However, all three transcription factors have been described as both tumor suppressors and oncogenes, indicating the need to determine their molecular mechanisms of action. Although RUNX3 has long been considered a tumor suppressor in human cancers, several recent studies have shown that RUNX3 is upregulated during the development or progression of various malignant tumors, suggesting it may act as a "conditional" oncogene. Resolving this paradox and understanding how a single gene can exhibit both oncogenic and tumor-suppressive properties is essential for successful drug targeting of RUNX. This review describes the evidence for the activities of RUNX3 in human cancer and proposes an explanation for the duality of RUNX3 involving the status of p53. In this model, p53 deficiency causes RUNX3 to become oncogenic, leading to aberrant upregulation of MYC.
The RUNX family of transcription factors, including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3, are key regulators of development and can function as either tumor suppressors or oncogenes in cancer. Emerging evidence suggests that the dysregulation of RUNX genes can promote genomic instability in both leukemia and solid cancers by impairing DNA repair mechanisms. RUNX proteins control the cellular response to DNA damage by regulating the p53, Fanconi anemia, and oxidative stress repair pathways through transcriptional or non-transcriptional mechanisms. This review highlights the importance of RUNX-dependent DNA repair regulation in human cancers.
BACKGROUND: Checkpoint blockade immunotherapy, represented by PD-1 or PD-L1 antibody treatment, has been of tremendous success in clinical practice. However, the low clinical response rate and lack of biomarkers for prediction of the immune response limit the clinical application of anti-PD-1 immunotherapy. Our recent work showed that a combination of low-dose decitabine and PD-1-ab significantly improved the complete response (CR) rate of cHL patients from 32 to 71%, which indicates that there is a significant correlation between epigenetic regulation and the clinical response to immunotherapy.METHODS: We recruited two groups of Hodgkin lymphoma patients who were treated with anti-PD-1 and DAC+anti-PD-1. CD8+ T cells were isolated from the patients' peripheral blood, DNA methylation was analyzed by EPIC, the expression profile was analyzed by RNA-seq, and multigroup analysis was performed with IPA and GSEA functional annotations. We explored the effect of DAC on the function of CD8+ T cells in the blood, spleen, tumor and lymph nodes using a mouse model. Furthermore, we explored the function of Tils in the tumor microenvironment. Then, we constructed Runx3-knockout mice to confirm the T-cell-specific function of Runx3 in CD8+ T cells and analyzed various subtypes of T cells and cytokines using mass cytometry (CyTOF).RESULTS: Multiomics analysis identified that DNA methylation reprogramming of Runx3 was a crucial mediator of CD8+ T-cell function. Multiomics data showed that reversal of methylation of the Runx3 promoter promoted the infiltration of CD8+ TILs and mitigated the exhaustion of CD8+ T cells. Furthermore, experiments on tissue-specific Runx3-knockout mice showed that Runx3 deficiency reduced CD8+ T infiltration and the differentiation of effector T and memory T cells. Furthermore, Runx3 deficiency significantly decreased CCR3 and CCR5 levels. Immunotherapy experiments in Runx3 conditional knockout mice showed that DAC could not reverse the resistance of anti-PD-1 in the absence of Runx3. Moreover, both our clinical data and data from TISIDB showed that Runx3 could be a potential biomarker for immunotherapy to predict the clinical response rate.CONCLUSION: We demonstrate that the DNA methylation of Runx3 plays a critical role in CD8+ T-cell infiltration and differentiation during decitabine-primed PD-1-ab immunotherapy, which provides a supporting mechanism for the essential role of epiregulation in immunotherapy.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) plays a pivotal role in tumor microenvironment and immune infiltration. However, the prognostic and immunological roles of RUNX3 in pancancer remain unclear. In the current study, we explored the expression profiles, prognostic landscape, and immune infiltration of RUNX3 in pancancer through a variety of online platforms, including HPA, ONCOMINE, UALCAN, GEPIA, PrognoScan, TCGA, TIMER, R2, and Reactome databases. In general, RUNX3 was widely expressed in tonsil, gallbladder, skin, spleen, lymph node, and bone marrow, and RUNX3 was frequently higher expression in tumor tissues compared to normal tissues. In prognostic analysis, the RUNX3 expression level was significantly correlated with the clinical outcomes of bladder cancer, blood cancer, brain cancer, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, and ovarian cancer. In mutation analysis, a total 72 mutation sites were located within amino acids 1 to 415 of RUNX3, including 65 missense sites and seven truncating sites, whereas the mutation frequency of skin cutaneous melanoma and uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma (UCEC) is relatively high (> 3%). In immune infiltration analysis, the RUNX3 expression level was significantly related to recognized markers and the immune infiltration levels of various types of immune cells in colon adenocarcinoma (COAD) and brain lower grade glioma (LGG). After that, 453 RUNX3 co-expressed genes were recognized in COAD, lymphoid neoplasm diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, LGG, and ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma (OV). Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that RUNX3 co-expressed genes were remarkably enriched in immune system and tumor progression pathways. RUNX3 expression is associated with clinical prognosis, immune infiltration, and identified RUNX3 related pathways in a variety of tumors, which may serve as targets of promising prognostic markers and novel therapeutic targets for various human cancers.
BACKGROUND: Oncologic outcomes for patients with localized prostate cancer (PCa) undergoing radical prostatectomy (RP) can vary widely. Hypermethylation of tumor-associated genes has potential as a novel diagnostic tool and predictive biomarker in PCa. We investigated the methylation status of tumor-associated genes in patients who underwent RP.METHODS: Patients who underwent RP during 2004 to 2008 were matched retrospectively based on post-operative D'Amico risk stratification. Quantitative pyrosequencing was used to analyze methylation status of 10 gene loci in cancerous and adjacent benign tissue from histological specimen. Follow-up was performed according to EAU guideline recommendations. Statistical analyses were performed to correlate methylation levels in cancerous and benign tissue with risk profiles and biochemical recurrence (BCR).RESULTS: The cohort included 71 patients: 22 low-risk, 22 intermediate-risk, and 27 high-risk. Mean follow-up time was 74 months. Methylation status differed significantly between cancerous and adjacent benign tissue for the 5 gene loci GSTP1, APC, RASSF1, TNFRFS10c, and RUNX3 (each P < 0.001). Also, the methylation level was significantly higher in high-risk than in low-risk patients for Endoglin2 and APC (P = 0.026; P = 0.032). Using ROC analysis, hypermethylation of APC in PCa tissue was associated with higher risk of BCR (P = 0.005).CONCLUSION: Methylation status of various gene loci holds diagnostic and predictive potential in PCa. Hypermethylation of APC, RASSF1, TNFRFS10c and RUNX3 were identified as novel PCa-specific biomarkers. Furthermore, increased methylation levels of APC and Endoglin2 were associated with high-risk PCa. Additionally, hypermethylation of APC was associated with increased risk of BCR after RP.
Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is a type of rare but highly aggressive cancer with a dismal prognosis. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), a member of the runt-domain family, and its promoter methylation have been widely observed in a variety of human malignancies. However, the biological function and underlying mechanism of RUNX3 in GBC remain elusive. In this study, bisulfate sequencing PCR (BSP), Western blot, and qPCR were applied to identify the expression level and DNA methylation level of RUNX3 in GBC tissues and cells. The transcriptional relationship between RUNX3 and Inhibitor of growth 1 (ING1) was validated by dual-luciferase reporter assay and ChIP assay. A series of gain-of-function and loss-of-function assays were performed to detect the function and the regulatory relationship of RUNX3 in vitro and in vivo. RUNX3 was aberrantly downregulated in GBC cells and tissues caused by DNA Methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1)-mediated methylation, and downregulation of RUNX3 is associated with poor prognosis of GBC patients. Functional experiments reveal that RUNX3 can induce ferroptosis of GBC cells in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RUNX3 induces ferroptosis by activating ING1 transcription, thereby repressing SLC7A11 in a p53-dependent manner. In conclusion, the downregulation of RUNX3 is mediated by DNA methylation, which promotes the pathogenesis of gallbladder cancer through attenuating SLC7A11-mediated ferroptosis. This study gives novel insights into the role of RUNX3 in the ferroptosis of GBC cells, which may contribute to developing potential treatment targets for GBC.
Haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are multipotent, but individual HSCs can show restricted lineage output in vivo. Currently, the molecular mechanisms and physiological role of HSC fate restriction remain unknown. Here we show that lymphoid fate is epigenetically but not transcriptionally primed in HSCs. In multi-lineage HSCs that produce lymphocytes, lymphoid-specific upstream regulatory elements (LymUREs) but not promoters are preferentially accessible compared with platelet-biased HSCs that do not produce lymphoid cell types, providing transcriptionally silent lymphoid lineage priming. Runx3 is preferentially expressed in multi-lineage HSCs, and reinstating Runx3 expression increases LymURE accessibility and lymphoid-primed multipotent progenitor 4 (MPP4) output in old, platelet-biased HSCs. In contrast, platelet-biased HSCs show elevated levels of epigenetic platelet-lineage priming and give rise to MPP2 progenitors with molecular platelet bias. These MPP2 progenitors generate platelets with faster kinetics and through a more direct cellular pathway compared with MPP2s derived from multi-lineage HSCs. Epigenetic programming therefore predicts both fate restriction and differentiation kinetics in HSCs.
Interfacial tension governs the behaviors and physiological functions of multiple biological condensates during diverse biological processes. Little is known about whether there are cellular surfactant factors that regulate the interfacial tension and functions of biological condensates within physiological environments. TFEB, a master transcription factor that controls expression of autophagic-lysosomal genes, assembles into transcriptional condensates to control the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP). Here, we show that interfacial tension modulates the transcriptional activity of TFEB condensates. MLX, MYC, and IPMK act as synergistic surfactants to decrease the interfacial tension and consequent DNA affinity of TFEB condensates. The interfacial tension of TFEB condensates is quantitatively correlated to their DNA affinity and subsequent ALP activity. The interfacial tension and DNA affinity of condensates formed by TAZ-TEAD4 are also regulated by the synergistic surfactant proteins RUNX3 and HOXA4. Our results indicate that the interfacial tension and functions of biological condensates can be controlled by cellular surfactant proteins in human cells.
Long-term abuse of methamphetamine (MA) can cause lung toxicity. Intercellular communication between macrophages and alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) is critical for maintaining lung homeostasis. Microvesicles (MVs) are an important medium of intercellular communication. However, the mechanism of macrophage MVs (MMVs) in MA-induced chronic lung injury remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate if MA can augment the activity of MMVs and if circ_YTHDF2 is a key factor in MMV-mediated macrophage-AEC communication, and to explore the mechanism of MMV-derived circ_YTHDF2 in MA-induced chronic lung injury. MA elevated peak velocity of the pulmonary artery and pulmonary artery accelerate time, reduced the number of alveolar sacs, thickened the alveolar septum, and accelerated the release of MMVs and the uptake of MMVs by AECs. Circ_YTHDF2 was downregulated in lung and MMVs induced by MA. The immune factors in MMVs were increased by si-circ_YTHDF. Circ_YTHDF2 knockdown in MMVs induced inflammation and remodelling in the internalised AECs by MMVs, which was reversed by circ_YTHDF2 overexpression in MMVs. Circ_YTHDF2 bound specifically to and sponged miRNA-145-5p. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was identified as potential target of miR-145-5p. RUNX3 targeted zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1)-related inflammation and EMT of AECs. In vivo, circ_YTHDF2 overexpression-MMVs attenuated MA-induced lung inflammation and remodelling by the circ_YTHDF2-miRNA-145-5p-RUNX3 axis. Therefore, MA abuse can induce pulmonary dysfunction and alveolus injury. The immunoactivity of MMVs is regulated by circ_YTHDF2. Circ_YTHDF2 in MMVs is the key to communication between macrophages and AECs. Circ_YTHDF2 sponges miR-145-5p targeting RUNX3 to participate in ZEB1-related inflammation and remodelling of AECs. MMV-derived circ_YTHDF2 would be an important therapeutic target for MA-induced chronic lung injury. KEY POINTS: Methamphetamine (MA) abuse induces pulmonary dysfunction and alveoli injury. The immunoactivity of macrophage microvesicles (MMVs) is regulated by circ_YTHDF2. Circ_YTHDF2 in MMVs is the key to MMV-mediated intercellular communication between macrophages and alveolar epithelial cells. Circ_YTHDF2 sponges miR-145-5p targeting runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) to participate in zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1)-related inflammation and remodelling. MMV-derived circ_YTHDF2 would be an important therapeutic target for MA-induced chronic lung injury.
The role of eosinophil and migratory dendritic cell (migDC) subsets during tropical pulmonary eosinophilia (TPE), a potentially fatal complication of lymphatic filariasis, has not been explored. We show that the onset of TPE is characterized by the accumulation of ROS and anaphylatoxins and a rapid influx of morphologically distinct Siglec-Fint resident eosinophils (rEos) and Siglec-Fhi inflammatory eosinophils (iEos) in the lungs, BAL fluid, and blood of TPE mice. While rEos display regulatory behavior, iEos are highly inflammatory cells, as evident in upregulated expression of activation markers CD69 and CD101, anaphylatoxin receptor C5AR1, alarmins s100a8 and s100a9, components of NADPH oxidase, and copious secretion of TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-6, IL-1β, IL-4, IL-10, IL-12, and TGF-β. Importantly, iEos exhibited heightened ROS generation, higher phagocytic and increased antigen presentation capacity, elevated Ca2+ influx, and increased F-actin polymerization but downregulated negative regulators of the immune response, i.e., Cd300a, Anaxa1, Runx3, Lilrb3, and Serpinb1a, underlining their essential role in promoting lung damage during TPE. Interestingly, TPE mice also showed significant expansion of CD24+CD11b+ migDCs, which showed upregulated expression of maturation and costimulatory markers CD40, CD80, CD83, CD86, and MHCII, increased antigen presentation capacity, and higher migratory potential as evidenced by increased expression of cytokine receptors CCR4, CCR5, CXCR4, and CXCR5. CD24+CD11b+ migDCs also upregulated the expression of immunoregulators PD-L1 and PD-L2 and secreted proinflammatory cytokines, suggesting their significant involvement during TPE. Taken together, we document important morphological, immunophenotypic, and functional characteristics of eosinophil and migDC subsets in the lungs of TPE mice and suggest that they contribute to worsening lung histopathological conditions during TPE.
BACKGROUND: Extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) is an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma with dismal outcome. A better understanding of disease biology and key oncogenic process is necessary for the development of targeted therapy. Super-enhancers (SEs) have been shown to drive pivotal oncogenes in various malignancies. However, the landscape of SEs and SE-associated oncogenes remain elusive in NKTL.METHODS: We used Nano-ChIP-seq of the active enhancer marker histone H3 lysine 27 acetylation (H3K27ac) to profile unique SEs NKTL primary tumor samples. Integrative analysis of RNA-seq and survival data further pinned down high value, novel SE oncogenes. We utilized shRNA knockdown, CRISPR-dCas9, luciferase reporter assay, ChIP-PCR to investigate the regulation of transcription factor (TF) on SE oncogenes. Multi-color immunofluorescence (mIF) staining was performed on an independent cohort of clinical samples. Various function experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of TOX2 on the malignancy of NKTL in vitro and in vivo.RESULTS: SE landscape was substantially different in NKTL samples in comparison with normal tonsils. Several SEs at key transcriptional factor (TF) genes, including TOX2, TBX21(T-bet), EOMES, RUNX2, and ID2, were identified. We confirmed that TOX2 was aberrantly overexpressed in NKTL relative to normal NK cells and high expression of TOX2 was associated with worse survival. Modulation of TOX2 expression by shRNA, CRISPR-dCas9 interference of SE function impacted on cell proliferation, survival and colony formation ability of NKTL cells. Mechanistically, we found that RUNX3 regulates TOX2 transcription by binding to the active elements of its SE. Silencing TOX2 also impaired tumor formation of NKTL cells in vivo. Metastasis-associated phosphatase PRL-3 has been identified and validated as a key downstream effector of TOX2-mediated oncogenesis.CONCLUSIONS: Our integrative SE profiling strategy revealed the landscape of SEs, novel targets and insights into molecular pathogenesis of NKTL. The RUNX3-TOX2-SE-TOX2-PRL-3 regulatory pathway may represent a hallmark of NKTL biology. Targeting TOX2 could be a valuable therapeutic intervene for NKTL patients and warrants further study in clinic.
DNA methylation may be involved in the development of osteosarcomas. Osteosarcomas commonly arise during the bone growth and remodeling in puberty, making it plausible to infer the involvement of epigenetic alterations in their development. As a highly studied epigenetic mechanism, we investigated DNA methylation and related genetic variants in 28 primary osteosarcomas aiming to identify deregulated driver alterations. Methylation and genomic data were obtained using the Illumina HM450K beadchips and the TruSight One sequencing panel, respectively. Aberrant DNA methylation was spread throughout the osteosarcomas genomes. We identified 3146 differentially methylated CpGs comparing osteosarcomas and bone tissue samples, with high methylation heterogeneity, global hypomethylation and focal hypermethylation at CpG islands. Differentially methylated regions (DMR) were detected in 585 loci (319 hypomethylated and 266 hypermethylated), mapped to the promoter regions of 350 genes. These DMR genes were enriched for biological processes related to skeletal system morphogenesis, proliferation, inflammatory response, and signal transduction. Both methylation and expression data were validated in independent groups of cases. Six tumor suppressor genes harbored deletions or promoter hypermethylation (DLEC1, GJB2, HIC1, MIR149, PAX6, and WNT5A), and four oncogenes presented gains or hypomethylation (ASPSCR1, NOTCH4, PRDM16, and RUNX3). Our analysis also revealed hypomethylation at 6p22, a region that contains several histone genes. Copy-number changes in DNMT3B (gain) and TET1 (loss), as well as overexpression of DNMT3B in osteosarcomas provide a possible explanation for the observed phenotype of CpG island hypermethylation. While the detected open-sea hypomethylation likely contributes to the well-known osteosarcoma genomic instability, enriched CpG island hypermethylation suggests an underlying mechanism possibly driven by overexpression of DNMT3B likely resulting in silencing of tumor suppressors and DNA repair genes.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one common cancer in the world. Previous studies have shown that miR-17 family members are elevated in most tumors and promote tumor progression. However, there is no comprehensive analysis of the expression and functional mechanism of the microRNA-17 (miR-17) family in HCC. The aim of this study is to comprehensively analyze the function of the miR-17 family in HCC and the molecular mechanism of its role. Bioinfoimatics analysis of the miR-17 family expression profile and its relationship to clinical significance using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, and this result was confirmed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. miR-17 family members were tested for functional effects through transfection of miRNA precursors and inhibitors, and monitoring cell viability and migration by cell count and wound healing assays. In addition, we using dual-luciferase assay and Western blot demonstrated the targeting relationship between the miRNA-17 family and RUNX3. These members of miR-17 family were highly expressed in HCC tissues, and the overexpression of the miR-17 family promoted the proliferation and migration of SMMC-7721 cells, whereas treatment with anti-miR17 inhibitors caused the opposite effects. Notably, we also found that inhibitors anti-each member of miR-17 can suppress the expression of the entire family member. In addition, they can bind to the 3' untranslated region of RUNX3 to regulate its expression at the translational level. Our results proved that miR-17 family has oncogenic characteristics, overexpression every member of the family contributed to HCC cell proliferation and migration by reducing the translation of RUNX3.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are heterogeneous innate immune cells which participate in host defense, mucosal repair and immunopathology by producing effector cytokines similarly to their adaptive immune cell counterparts. The development of ILC1, 2, and 3 subsets is controlled by core transcription factors: T-bet, GATA3, and RORγt, respectively. ILCs can undergo plasticity and transdifferentiate to other ILC subsets in response to invading pathogens and changes in local tissue environment. Accumulating evidence suggests that the plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity is controlled by a balance between these and additional transcription factors such as STATs, Batf, Ikaros, Runx3, c-Maf, Bcl11b, and Zbtb46, activated in response to lineage-guiding cytokines. However, how interplay between these transcription factors leads to ILC plasticity and the maintenance of ILC identity remains hypothetical. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding transcriptional regulation of ILCs in homeostatic and inflammatory conditions.
Colon cancer is a common malignancy and a major contributor to human morbidity and mortality. In this study, we explore the expression and prognostic impact of IRS-1, IRS-2, RUNx3, and SMAD4 in colon cancer. Furthermore, we elucidate their correlations with miRs 126, 17-5p, and 20a-5p, which are identified as potential regulators of these proteins. Tumor tissue from 452 patients operated for stage I-III colon cancer was retrospectively collected and assembled into tissue microarrays. Biomarkers' expressions were examined by immunohistochemistry and analyzed using digital pathology. In univariate analyses, high expression levels of IRS1 in stromal cytoplasm, RUNX3 in tumor (nucleus and cytoplasm) and stroma (nucleus and cytoplasm), and SMAD4 in tumor (nucleus and cytoplasm) and stromal cytoplasm were related to increased disease-specific survival (DSS). In multivariate analyses, high expression of IRS1 in stromal cytoplasm, RUNX3 in tumor nucleus and stromal cytoplasm, and high expression of SMAD4 in tumor and stromal cytoplasm remained independent predictors of improved DSS. Surprisingly, with the exception of weak correlations (0.2 < r < 0.25) between miR-126 and SMAD4, the investigated markers were mostly uncorrelated with the miRs. However, weak to moderate/strong correlations (0.3 < r < 0.6) were observed between CD3 and CD8 positive lymphocyte density and stromal RUNX3 expression. High expression levels of IRS1, RUNX3, and SMAD4 are positive prognostic factors in stage I-III colon cancer. Furthermore, stromal expression of RUNX3 is associated with increased lymphocyte density, suggesting that RUNX3 is an important mediator during recruitment and activation of immune cells in colon cancer.
RUNX3 is a transcription factor with regulatory roles in cell proliferation and development. While largely characterized as a tumor suppressor, RUNX3 can also be oncogenic in certain cancers. Many factors account for the tumor suppressor function of RUNX3, which is reflected by its ability to suppress cancer cell proliferation after expression-restoration, and its inactivation in cancer cells. Ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation represent a major mechanism for the inactivation of RUNX3 and the suppression of cancer cell proliferation. On the one hand, RUNX3 has been shown to facilitate the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of oncogenic proteins. On the other hand, RUNX3 can be inactivated through the ubiquitin-proteasome system. This review encapsulates two facets of RUNX3 in cancer: how RUNX3 suppresses cell proliferation by facilitating the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of oncogenic proteins, and how RUNX3 is degraded itself through interacting RNA-, protein-, and pathogen-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation.
A cell cycle is a series of events that takes place in a cell as it grows and divides. At the G1 phase of cell cycle, cells monitor their cumulative exposure to specific signals and make the critical decision to pass through the restriction (R)-point. The R-point decision-making machinery is fundamental to normal differentiation, apoptosis, and G1-S transition. Deregulation of this machinery is markedly associated with tumorigenesis. Therefore, identification of the molecular mechanisms that govern the R-point decision is one of the fundamental issues in tumor biology. RUNX3 is one of the genes frequently inactivated in tumors by epigenetic alterations. In particular, RUNX3 is downregulated in most K-RAS-activated human and mouse lung adenocarcinomas (ADCs). Targeted inactivation of Runx3 in the mouse lung induces adenomas (ADs), and markedly shortens the latency of ADC formation induced by oncogenic K-Ras. RUNX3 participates in the transient formation of R-point-associated activator (RPA-RX3-AC) complexes, which measure the duration of RAS signals and thereby protect cells against oncogenic RAS. This review focuses on the molecular mechanism by which the R-point participates in oncogenic surveillance.
Naive CD4+ T cells are more resistant to age-related loss than naive CD8+ T cells, suggesting mechanisms that preferentially protect naive CD4+ T cells during aging. Here, we show that TRIB2 is more abundant in naive CD4+ than CD8+ T cells and counteracts quiescence exit by suppressing AKT activation. TRIB2 deficiency increases AKT activity and accelerates proliferation and differentiation in response to interleukin-7 (IL-7) in humans and during lymphopenia in mice. TRIB2 transcription is controlled by the lineage-determining transcription factors ThPOK and RUNX3. Ablation of Zbtb7b (encoding ThPOK) and Cbfb (obligatory RUNT cofactor) attenuates the difference in lymphopenia-induced proliferation between naive CD4+ and CD8+ cells. In older adults, ThPOK and TRIB2 expression wanes in naive CD4+ T cells, causing loss of naivety. These findings assign TRIB2 a key role in regulating T cell homeostasis and provide a model to explain the lesser resilience of CD8+ T cells to undergo changes with age.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the association between PTCH1 single nucleotide polymorphism(SNP) and non-syndromic cleft lip with or without palate (NSCL/P) in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous region and predict the function of single nucleotide polymorphism through bioinformatics analysis.DESIGN: A case-control analysis of 31 single nucleotide polymorphism locus alleles on PTCH1 gene (504 cases and 455 controls) was performed to explore the association between PTCH1 gene polymorphisms and non-syndromic cleft lip with or without palate in Ningxia region. Transcription factors, 3D single nucleotide polymorphism and other related information of single nucleotide polymorphism loci with statistical significance were screened by the case-control experiments, and then analyzed the corresponding transcription factors through the NCBI database.RESULTS: The case-control study showed that 5 of the 31 single nucleotide polymorphism loci rs357564 (P = 0.0233), rs1805155 (P = 0.0371), rs28446116 (P = 0.0408), rs2282041 (P = 0.0439), rs56119276 (P = 0.0256) had statistically significant differences in allele frequencies between the case and control groups. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that EP300 and RUNX3, among the transcription factors associated with rs28446116, may be associated with the development of non-syndromic cleft lip with or without palate.CONCLUSION: PTCH1 gene may be associated with the occurrence of non-syndromic cleft lip with or without palate in the Ningxia region, which may be related to the role of EP300 and RUNX3 in the development of cleft lip and palate.
BACKGROUND: Solid tumors pose unique roadblocks to treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, including limited T-cell persistence, inefficient tumor infiltration, and an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment. To date, attempts to overcome these roadblocks have been unsatisfactory. Herein, we reported a strategy of combining Runx3 (encoding RUNX family transcription factor 3)-overexpression with ex vivo protein kinase B (AKT) inhibition to generate CAR-T cells with both central memory and tissue-resident memory characteristics to overcome these roadblocks.METHODS: We generated second-generation murine CAR-T cells expressing a CAR against human carbonic anhydrase 9 together with Runx3-overexpression and expanded them in the presence of AKTi-1/2, a selective and reversible inhibitor of AKT1/AKT2. We explored the influence of AKT inhibition (AKTi), Runx3-overexpression, and their combination on CAR-T cell phenotypes using flow cytometry, transcriptome profiling, and mass cytometry. The persistence, tumor-infiltration, and antitumor efficacy of CAR-T cells were evaluated in subcutaneous pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) tumor models.RESULTS: AKTi generated a CD62L+central memory-like CAR-T cell population with enhanced persistence, but promotable cytotoxic potential. Runx3-overexpression cooperated with AKTi to generate CAR-T cells with both central memory and tissue-resident memory characteristics. Runx3-overexpression enhanced the potential of CD4+CAR T cells and cooperated with AKTi to inhibit the terminal differentiation of CD8+CAR T cells induced by tonic signaling. While AKTi promoted CAR-T cell central memory phenotype with prominently enhanced expansion ability, Runx3-overexpression promoted the CAR-T cell tissue-resident memory phenotype and further enhanced persistence, effector function, and tumor-residency. These novel AKTi-generated Runx3-overexpressing CAR-T cells exhibited robust antitumor activity and responded well to programmed cell death 1 blockade in subcutaneous PDAC tumor models.CONCLUSIONS: Runx3-overexpression cooperated with ex vivo AKTi to generate CAR-T cells with both tissue-resident and central memory characteristics, which equipped CAR-T cells with better persistence, cytotoxic potential, and tumor-residency ability to overcome roadblocks in the treatment of solid tumors.
Dissecting and identifying the major actors and pathways in the genesis, progression and aggressive advancement of breast cancer is challenging, in part because neoplasms arising in this tissue represent distinct diseases and in part because the tumors themselves evolve. This review attempts to illustrate the complexity of this mutational landscape as it pertains to the RUNX genes and their transcription co-factor CBFβ. Large-scale genomic studies that characterize genetic alterations across a disease subtype are a useful starting point and as such have identified recurring alterations in CBFB and in the RUNX genes (particularly RUNX1). Intriguingly, the functional output of these mutations is often context dependent with regards to the estrogen receptor (ER) status of the breast cancer. Therefore, such studies need to be integrated with an in-depth understanding of both the normal and corrupted function in mammary cells to begin to tease out how loss or gain of function can alter the cell phenotype and contribute to disease progression. We review how alterations to RUNX/CBFβ function contextually ascribe to breast cancer subtypes and discuss how the in vitro analyses and mouse model systems have contributed to our current understanding of these proteins in the pathogenesis of this complex set of diseases.
The Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family, which is essential for the differentiation of cells of neural crest origin, also plays a potential role in neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. Consecutive studies in various tumor types have demonstrated that the RUNX family can play either pro-tumorigenic or anti-tumorigenic roles in a context-dependent manner, including in response to chemotherapeutic agents. However, in primary neuroblastomas, RUNX3 acts as a tumor-suppressor, whereas RUNX1 bifunctionally regulates cell proliferation according to the characterized genetic and epigenetic backgrounds, including MYCN oncogenesis. In this review, we first highlight the current knowledge regarding the mechanism through which the RUNX family regulates the neurotrophin receptors known as the tropomyosin-related kinase (Trk) family, which are significantly associated with neuroblastoma aggressiveness. We then focus on the possible involvement of the RUNX family in functional alterations of the p53 family members that execute either tumor-suppressive or dominant-negative functions in neuroblastoma tumorigenesis. By examining the tripartite relationship between the RUNX, Trk, and p53 families, in addition to the oncogene MYCN, we endeavor to elucidate the possible contribution of the RUNX family to neuroblastoma tumorigenesis for a better understanding of potential future molecular-based therapies.
PURPOSE: Severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) is a life-threatening inflammatory syndrome of the pancreas. This study aimed to analyze the clinical significance of runt-associated transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) expression alterations in SAP.METHODS: This study included 18 SAP patients in Wuzhong People's Hospital from November 2019 to December 2021 and 18 healthy controls. RUNX3 and FGFR2 expression levels were determined by RT-quantitative PCR. Correlations between RUNX3/FGFR2 and sex, age, etiology, CRP, procalcitonin, AST, LDH, BUN, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II), Ranson score, Bedside Index for Severity in Acute Pancreatitis (BISAP) score, sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA), and modified computed tomography severity index (MCTSI) score were analyzed. Diagnostic values of RUNX3 and FGFR2 in SAP were analyzed using the receiver-operating characteristic curve. The binding of RUNX3 to FGFR2 was analyzed by chromatin immunoprecipitation.RESULTS: RUNX3 and FGFR2 were downregulated in peripheral blood of SAP patients. RUNX3 and FGFR2 were negatively correlated with CRP, procalcitonin, AST, LDH, BUN, APACHE II score, Ranson score, BISAP score, SOFA score, and MCTSI score. Sensitivity and specificity of RUNX3 level of <0.9650 for SAP diagnosis were 88.89% and 72.22%, respectively. Sensitivity and specificity of FGFR2 level of <0.8950 for SAP diagnosis were 66.67% and 83.33%, respectively. RUNX3 was enriched in the FGFR2 promoter and was positively correlated with FGFR2.CONCLUSION: RUNX3 and FGFR2 were downregulated in peripheral blood of SAP patients and served as candidate biomarkers for SAP diagnosis. RUNX3 bound to the FGFR2 promoter to promote FGFR2 transcription.
The runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) play prominent roles in cell cycle progression, differentiation, apoptosis, immunity and epithelial-mesenchymal transition. There are three members in the mammalian RUNX family, each with distinct tissue expression profiles. RUNX genes play unique and redundant roles during development and adult tissue homeostasis. The ability of RUNX proteins to influence signaling pathways, such as Wnt, TGFβ and Hippo-YAP, suggests that they integrate signals from the environment to dictate cell fate decisions. All RUNX genes hold master regulator roles, albeit in different tissues, and all have been implicated in cancer. Paradoxically, RUNX genes exert tumor suppressive and oncogenic functions, depending on tumor type and stage. Unlike RUNX1 and 2, the role of RUNX3 in stem cells is poorly understood. A recent study using cancer-derived RUNX3 mutation R122C revealed a gatekeeper role for RUNX3 in gastric epithelial stem cell homeostasis. The corpora of RUNX3R122C/R122C mice showed a dramatic increase in proliferating stem cells as well as inhibition of differentiation. Tellingly, RUNX3R122C/R122C mice also exhibited a precancerous phenotype. This review focuses on the impact of RUNX3 dysregulation on (1) stem cell fate and (2) the molecular mechanisms underpinning early carcinogenesis.
CAR-T therapy has shown successful in the treatment of certain types of hematological malignancy, while the efficacy of CAR-T cell in treating solid tumors has been limited due to the exhaustion of CAR-T caused by the tumor microenvironment in solid tumors. Therefore, improving the exhaustion of CAR-T cell is one of the inspiring strategies for CAR-T treatment of solid tumors. As an important regulator in T cell immunity, the transcription factor RUNX3 not only negatively regulates the terminal differentiation T-bet gene, reducing the ultimate differentiation of T cells, but also increases the residency of T cells in non-lymphoid tissues and tumors. By overexpressing RUNX3 in CAR-T cells, we found that increasing the expression of RUNX3 maintained the low differentiation of CAR-T cells, further improving the exhaustion of CAR-T cells during antigen stimulation. In vitro, we found that RUNX3 could reduce the release of cytokines while maintaining CAR-T cells function. In re-challenge experiments, CAR-T cells overexpressing RUNX3 (Runx3-OE CAR-T) were safer than conventional CAR-T cells, while RUNX3 could also maintain the anti-tumor efficacy of CAR-T cells in vivo. Collectively, we found that Runx3-OE CAR-T cells can improve CAR-T phenotype and reduce cytokines release while maintaining CAR-T cells function, which may improve the safety of CAR-T therapy in clinical trials.
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a risk factor that leads to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development. Epigenetic changes are known to play an important role in the molecular genetic mechanisms of virus-induced oncogenesis. Aberrant DNA methylation is a mediator of epigenetic changes that are closely associated with the HCC pathogenesis and considered a biomarker for its early diagnosis. The ANDSystem software package was used to reconstruct and evaluate the statistical significance of the pathways HCV could potentially use to regulate 32 hypermethylated genes in HCC, including both oncosuppressor and protumorigenic ones identified by genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation. The reconstructed pathways included those affecting protein-protein interactions (PPI), gene expression, protein activity, stability, and transport regulations, the expression regulation pathways being statistically significant. It has been shown that 8 out of 10 HCV proteins were involved in these pathways, the HCV NS3 protein being implicated in the largest number of regulatory pathways. NS3 was associated with the regulation of 5 tumor-suppressor genes, which may be the evidence of its central role in HCC pathogenesis. Analysis of the reconstructed pathways has demonstrated that following the transcription factor inhibition caused by binding to viral proteins, the expression of a number of oncosuppressors (WT1, MGMT, SOCS1, P53) was suppressed, while the expression of others (RASF1, RUNX3, WIF1, DAPK1) was activated. Thus, the performed gene-network reconstruction has shown that HCV proteins can influence not only the methylation status of oncosuppressor genes, but also their transcriptional regulation. The results obtained can be used in the search for pharmacological targets to develop new drugs against HCV-induced HCC.
Schwann cells (SCs) play a crucial role in peripheral nerve injury and regeneration. Recently, RUNX3 was found to be linked with neurological dysfunction. We examined the RUNX3 expression in sciatic nerve stumps with peripheral nerve injury of rats, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-induced SCs. MTT assay was applied to determine the proliferation of SCs. Cell migration and apoptosis were assessed using wound healing assay and flow cytometry. Subsequently, we detected the methylation level of RUNX3 using Methylation-specific PCR assay and verified its regulation by DNMT1. The RUNX3 expressions were increased in sciatic nerve stumps with peripheral nerve injury and cAMP-induced SCs differentiation, which were related to demethylation of its promoter region regulated by DNMT1. RUNX3 knockdown notably suppressed the proliferation and migration, and induced the cell apoptosis of SCs. Silencing of RUNX3 inhibited the cAMP-induced morphological changes of SCs and the increase of myelin-related proteins induced by cAMP in SCs, while RUNX3 overexpression exerted opposite effects. Besides, the overexpression of RUNX3 promoted the activation of JAK/STAT signaling to regulate SCs proliferation and myelination. Meanwhile, DNMT1 overexpression inhibited the expression of RUNX3, and cell proliferation and myelination. In conclusion, RUNX3 mediated by DNMT1 regulated SC proliferation and myelination via JAK/STAT signaling pathway.
Plakophilin 3 (PKP3) is a component of desmosomes and is frequently overexpressed in cancer. Using keratinocytes either lacking or overexpressing PKP3, we identify a signaling axis from ERK to the retinoblastoma (RB) protein and the E2F1 transcription factor that is controlled by PKP3. RB and E2F1 are key components controlling G1/S transition in the cell cycle. We show that PKP3 stimulates the activity of ERK and its target RSK1. This inhibits expression of the transcription factor RUNX3, a positive regulator of the CDK inhibitor CDKN1A/p21, which is also downregulated by PKP3. Elevated CDKN1A prevents RB phosphorylation and E2F1 target gene expression, leading to delayed S phase entry and reduced proliferation in PKP3-depleted cells. Elevated PKP3 expression not only increases ERK activity but also captures phosphorylated RB (phospho-RB) in the cytoplasm to promote E2F1 activity and cell-cycle progression. These data identify a mechanism by which PKP3 promotes proliferation and acts as an oncogene.
Genetic and environmental factors are associated with developing and progressing duodenal ulcer (DU) risk. However, the exact nature of the disease pathophysiology and the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-lifestyle interaction has yet to be determined. The purpose of the present study was to examine the SNPs linked to DU risk and their interaction with lifestyles and diets in a large hospital-based cohort of Asians. Based on an earlier diagnosis, the participants were divided into the DU (case; n = 1088) and non-DU (control, n = 56,713) groups. The SNP associated with DU risk were obtained from a genome-wide association study (GWAS), and those promoted genetic impact with SNP-SNP interactions were identified with generalized multifactor dimensionality reduction analysis. The interaction between polygenic risk score (PRS) calculated from the selected genetic variants and nutrient were examined. They were related to actin modification, immune response, and cell migration by modulating leucine-rich repeats (LRR) domain binding, Shaffer interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) targets in myeloma vs. mature B lymphocyte, and Reactome runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3). Among the selected SNPs, rs11230563 (R225W) showed missense mutation and low binding affinity with different food components in the autodock analysis. Glycyrrhizin, physalin B, janthitrem F, and casuarinin lowered it in only wild CD6 protein but not in mutated CD6. Plastoquinone 8, solamargine, saponin D, and matesaponin 2 decreased energy binding affinity in mutated CD6 proteins. The PRS of the 5-SNP and 6-SNP models exhibited a positive association with DU risk (OR = 3.14). The PRS of the 5-SNP PRS model interacted with irregular eating habits and smoking status. In participants with irregular eating habits or smokers, DU incidence was much higher in the participants with high PRS than in those with low PRS. In conclusion, the genetic impact of DU risk was mainly in regulating immunity, inflammation, and actin modification. Adults who are genetically susceptible to DU need to eat regularly and to be non-smokers. The results could be applied to personalize nutrition.
BACKGROUND: Studies are ongoing to examine the versatile functions of circular RNAs (circRNAs) in human diseases. This research investigates the effects of hsa_circ_0000644 (circ_644) and its related molecules on the malignant behavior of bladder cancer (BCa) cells.METHODS: Abundant bioinformatics analyses were performed to screen the key circRNA and its related molecules in BCa. Tumor tissues and the para-tumorous tissues were collected from 58 patients with BCa. Expression of RUNX family transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), circ_644, microRNA-143-3p (miR-143-3p), and musashi RNA binding protein 2 (MSI2) in BCa tissues or cells was determined. Molecular interactions were confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation, RNA pull-down, and luciferase assays. Gain and loss-of function assays were performed using two BCa cell lines (T24 and HT1376).RESULTS: Circ_644 was highly expressed whereas RUNX3, which could suppress circ_644 transcription, was lowly expressed in BCa tissues and cells. Upregulation of RUNX3 suppressed proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion, and tumorigenicity of BCa cells and induced cell cycle arrest. However, the tumor-suppressive effects of RUNX3 were blocked by circ_644 upregulation. Circ_644 served as a sponge for miR-143-3p, and miR-143-3p bound to MSI2 mRNA. The rescue experiments showed that miR-143-3p inhibition or MSI2 overexpression restored the malignant behaviors of BCa cells induced by circ_644 knockdown or RUNX3 overexpression.CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that transcriptional activation of circ_644 upon RUNX3 downregulation drives the malignant development of BCa through the miR-143-3p/MSI2 axis. RUNX3 restoration or specific inhibition of circ_644 or MSI2 may help block BCa progression.
Retraction of    Mol Med Rep. 2019 May;19(5):3933-3940.
Disturbances in immune regulation, intestinal dysbiosis and inflammation characterize ankylosing spondylitis (AS), which is associated with RUNX3 loss-of-function variants. ZAP70W163C mutant (SKG) mice have reduced ZAP70 signaling, spondyloarthritis and ileitis. In small intestine, Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Treg) and CD4+CD8αα+TCRαβ+ intraepithelial lymphocytes (CD4-IEL) control inflammation. TGF-β and retinoic acid (RA)-producing dendritic cells and MHC-class II+ intestinal epithelial cells (IEC) are required for Treg and CD4-IEL differentiation from CD4+ conventional or Treg precursors, with upregulation of Runx3 and suppression of ThPOK. We show in SKG mouse ileum, that ZAP70W163C or ZAP70 inhibition prevented CD4-IEL but not Treg differentiation, dysregulating Runx3 and ThPOK. TGF-β/RA-mediated CD4-IEL development, T-cell IFN-γ production, MHC class-II+ IEC, tissue-resident memory T-cell and Runx3-regulated genes were reduced. In AS intestine, CD4-IEL were decreased, while in AS blood CD4+CD8+ T cells were reduced and Treg increased. Thus, genetically-encoded TCR signaling dysfunction links intestinal T-cell immunodeficiency in mouse and human spondyloarthropathy.
INTRODUCTION: Hydatid cysts and angiogenesis are the key characteristics of cystic echinococcosis, with immune cells and endothelial cells mediating essential roles in disease progression. Recent single-cell analysis studies demonstrated immune cell infiltration after Echinococcus granulosus infection, highlighting the diagnostic and therapeutic potential of targeting certain cell types in the lesion microenvironment. However, more detailed immune mechanisms during different periods of E. granulosus infection were not elucidated.METHODS: Herein, we characterized immune and endothelial cells from the liver samples of mice in different stages by single-cell RNA sequencing.RESULTS: We profiled the transcriptomes of 45,199 cells from the liver samples of mice at 1, 3, and 6 months after infection (two replicates) and uninfected wild-type mice. The cells were categorized into 26 clusters with four distinct cell types: natural killer (NK)/T cells, B cells, myeloid cells, and endothelial cells. An SPP1+ macrophage subset with immunosuppressive and pro-angiogenic functions was identified in the late infection stage. Single-cell regulatory network inference and clustering (SCENIC) analysis suggested that Cebpe, Runx3, and Rora were the key regulators of the SPP1+ macrophages. Cell communication analysis revealed that the SPP1+ macrophages interacted with endothelial cells and had pro-angiogenic functions. There was an obvious communicative relationship between SPP1+ macrophages and endothelial cells via Vegfa-Vegfr1/Vegfr2, and SPP1+ macrophages interacted with other immune cells via specific ligand-receptor pairs, which might have contributed to their immunosuppressive function.DISCUSSION: Our comprehensive exploration of the cystic echinococcosis ecosystem and the first discovery of SPP1+ macrophages with infection period specificity provide deeper insights into angiogenesis and the immune evasion mechanisms associated with later stages of infection.
We previously found that QNBC tumors are more frequent in African Americans compared to TNBC tumors. To characterize this subtype further, we sought to determine the miRNA-mRNA profile in QNBC patients based on race. Both miRNA and mRNA expression data were analyzed from TCGA and validated using datasets from the METABRIC, TCGA proteomic, and survival analysis by KMPLOT. miRNA-mRNAs which include FOXA1 and MYC (mir-17/20a targets); GATA3 and CCNG2 (mir-135b targets); CDKN2A, CDK6, and B7-H3 (mir-29c targets); and RUNX3, KLF5, IL1-β, and CTNNB1 (mir-375 targets) were correlated with basal-like and immune subtypes in QNBC patients and associated with a worse survival. Thus, QNBC tumors have an altered gene signature implicated in racial disparity and poor survival.
BACKGROUND: Persistent pulmonary hypertension remains a major cause of mortality and morbidity in congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH). The secreted glycoprotein thrombospondin-1 (TSP1), a ligand for receptor CD47, is widely expressed on both systemic and pulmonary vascular cells. TSP1-CD47 signaling has been reported to be one of the pathogeneses of pulmonary hypertension (PH).METHODS: After creating a nitrofen-induced CDH rat model, fetuses were sacrificed on D17, D19 and D21 and divided into a control group and a CDH group. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was performed to determine the pulmonary gene expression of TSP1, CD47 and Runx3 (a regulator of TSP1). An immunofluorescence study was performed to evaluate the expression and localization of TSP1, CD47 and Runx3.RESULTS: The relative mRNA expression of pulmonary TSP1, CD47 and Runx3 on D21 was significantly increased in the CDH group (p = 0.005, p = 0.001, p = 0.046, and p = 0.002, respectively). The immunofluorescence study also confirmed the overexpression of TSP1, CD47 and Runx3 in the CDH group.CONCLUSION: Our results provide evidence that TSP1-CD47 signaling is involved in the pathogenesis of PH in a nitrofen-induced CDH model. Our data suggest that anti-CD47 antibodies can be novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of PH in CDH.
Limited T cell persistence restrains chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T cell therapy in solid tumors. To improve persistence, T cells have been engineered to secrete proinflammatory cytokines, but other possible methods have been understudied. Runx3 has been considered a master regulator of T cell development, cytotoxic T lymphocyte differentiation, and tissue-resident memory T (Trm)-cell formation. A study using a transgenic mouse model revealed that overexpression of Runx3 promoted T cell persistence in solid tumors. Here, we generated CAR-T cells overexpressing Runx3 (Run-CAR-T cells) and found that Run-CAR-T cells had long-lasting antitumor activities and achieved better tumor control than conventional CAR-T cells. We observed that more Run-CAR-T cells circulated in the peripheral blood and accumulated in tumor tissue, indicating that Runx3 coexpression improved CAR-T cell persistence in vivo. Tumor-infiltrating Run-CAR-T cells showed less cell death with enhanced proliferative and effector activities. Consistently, in vitro studies indicated that AICD was also decreased in Run-CAR-T cells via downregulation of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) secretion. Further studies revealed that Runx3 could bind to the TNF promoter and suppress its gene transcription after T cell activation. In conclusion, Runx3-armored CAR-T cells showed increased antitumor activities and could be a new modality for the treatment of solid tumors.
RUNX3 is a transcription factor and tumor suppressor that is silenced or inactivated in diverse tumors. The effect of RUNX3 on the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC) remains unclear. We determined the expression of RUNX3 and E-cadherin in tumor tissues and adjacent normal tissues of 30 CCRCC patients; established cultured CCRCC cells with the overexpression of RUNX3; and examined the in vivo tumorigenic function of RUNX3 in a nude mouse xenograft model of CCRCC. RUNX3 and E-cadherin were downregulated in human CCRCC samples. Cell lines with RUNX3 overexpression had reduced cell proliferation, invasion, and migration, a prolonged cell cycle, increased apoptosis, and increased expression of E-cadherin. In the nude mouse xenograft model of CCRCC, tumors with the overexpression of RUNX3 had smaller volumes and weights and had increased expression of E-cadherin. In conclusion, RUNX3 overexpression increased the level of E-cadherin and inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration of CCRCC in vitro and in vivo. RUNX3 has potential use as a biomarker for prognostic monitoring of CCRCC and as a therapeutic target for the treatment of this cancer.
This study aimed at analyzing the DNA methylation pattern and TP53 mutation status of intrinsic breast cancer (BC) subtypes for improved characterization and survival prediction. DNA methylation of 17 genes was tested by methylation-specific PCR in 116 non-familial BRCA mutation-negative BC and 29 control noncancerous cases. At least one gene methylation was detected in all BC specimens and a 10-gene panel statistically significantly separated tumors from noncancerous breast tissues. Methylation of FILIP1L and MT1E was predominant in triple-negative (TN) BC, while other BC subtypes were characterized by RASSF1, PRKCB, MT1G, APC, and RUNX3 hypermethylation. TP53 mutation (TP53-mut) was found in 38% of sequenced samples and mainly affected TN BC cases (87%). Cox analysis revealed that TN status, age at diagnosis, and RUNX3 methylation are independent prognostic factors for overall survival (OS) in BC. The combinations of methylated biomarkers, RUNX3 with MT1E or FILIP1L, were also predictive for shorter OS, whereas methylated FILIP1L was predictive of a poor outcome in the TP53-mut subgroup. Therefore, DNA methylation patterns of specific genes significantly separate BC from noncancerous breast tissues and distinguishes TN cases from non-TN BC, whereas the combination of two-to-three epigenetic biomarkers can be an informative tool for BC outcome predictions.
Overweight and obesity, associated with various health complications, refer to abnormal or excessive fat accumulation conditions that harm health. Like humans, obesity is a growing problem in dogs, which may increase the risk of serious diseases such as diabetes and cancer. Mulberry leaf has shown potential anti-obesity and anti-diabetes effects in several studies. Our research studied the impact of mulberry leaf supplements in healthy old overweight dogs for 12 weeks. Blood and fecal samples were collected from the dogs before and after treatment for different analyses, including whole transcriptome and gut microbiome analysis. The Body Condition Score (BCS) and blood glucose levels were significantly decreased in all mulberry treatment groups, which justifies the anti-obesity effect of mulberry leaf in dogs. Throughout the whole transcriptome study, the downregulation of PTX3 and upregulation of PDCD-1, TNFRSF1B, RUNX3, and TICAM1 genes in the high mulberry group were found, which have been associated with anti-inflammatory effects in the literature. It may be an essential gene expression mechanism responsible for the anti-inflammatory and, subsequently, anti-obesity effects associated with mulberry leaf treatment, as confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. In microbiome analysis, Papillibacter cinnamivorans, related to the Mediterranean diet, which may cause anti-inflammatory effects, were abundant in the same treatment group. Further studies may be required to establish the gene expression mechanism and role of abundant bacteria in the anti-obesity effect of mulberry supplements in dogs. Overall, we propose mulberry leaves as a portion of food supplements for improving blood glucose levels and the anti-inflammation of blood in companion dogs.
Methamphetamine (MA) is the most common and highly addictive substance abuse drug. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and Zinc finger E-box-binding homeobox 1 (ZEB1) are associated with lung inflammation and fibrosis. However, the protein-protein interactions (PPIs) between RUNX3 and ZEB1 and its involvement in MA-induced chronic lung injury is still unclear. In this study, we evaluated lung injury using echocardiography, hematoxylin and eosin staining, and western blot analysis. The viability of alveolar epithelial cells (AECs) was assessed using cell counting kit-8. Molecular Operating Environment software, Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database, co-immunoprecipitation, assay and confocal immunofluorescence assay were used to predict and identify the PPIs between RUNX3 and ZEB1. The expression of RUNX3 and ZEB1 were knockdown in AECs using siRNA. The results revealed that MA exposure increased the peak blood flow velocity of the pulmonary artery and the acceleration time of pulmonary artery blood flow. Further, exposure to MA also causes adhesion and fusion of the alveolar walls and altered AEC activity. A decrease in the expression of RUNX3 and an increase in the expression of ZEB1 and its downstream signaling molecules were observed on MA exposure. The PPIs between RUNX3 and ZEB1 were identified. Further, an increase in the protein binding rate of RUNX3-ZEB1 was observed in MA-induced lung injury. These results show interactions between RUNX3 and ZEB1. RUNX3 protects against lung injury; however, ZEB1 expression and the PPIs between ZEB1 and RUNX3 has deleterious effects on chronic lung injury induced by MA exposure. Our results provide a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of chronic lung injury due to MA exposure.
BACKGROUND: Keloid is a benign proliferative fibrous disease featured by excessive fibroblast proliferation after skin injury. However, the mechanism of abnormal cell proliferation is still unclear. Herein, we investigated the mechanism of abnormal proliferation in keloids involving Sirtuin 1(SIRT1)/ Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2)/ Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3).  METHODS: HE staining was used to observe the histopathological changes. Western blot was performed to detect SIRT1/EZH2/RUNX3 and cell cycle related proteins. RT-PCR detected EZH2 mRNA. After knockdown of EZH2 or overexpression of RUNX3, cell proliferation and cell cycle was analyzed. Immunoprecipitation was used to detect acetylated EZH2.RESULTS: The results showed that overexpression of RUNX3 inhibited cell proliferation and arrested cell cycle at G1/S phase, whereas inhibition of SIRT1 promoted cell proliferation and G1/S phase of the cell cycle. Knockdown of EZH2 promoted the expression of RUNX3, inhibited cell proliferation and shortened the progression of G1 to S phase. Simultaneous knockdown of EZH2 and inhibition of SIRT1 reversed these effects. Inhibition of SIRT1 increased its protein stability by increasing EZH2 acetylation, thereby reducing the expression of RUNX3 and promoting cell proliferation.CONCLUSIONS: Conclusively, the SIRT1/EZH2/RUNX3 axis may be an important pathway in the regulation of abnormal proliferation in keloids.
BACKGROUND: IgE-mediated food allergies have been linked to suboptimal naïve CD4 T (nCD4T) cell activation in infancy, underlined by epigenetic and transcriptomic variation. Similar attenuated nCD4T cell activation in adolescents with food allergy have also been reported, but these are yet to be linked to specific epigenetic or transcriptional changes.METHODS: We generated genome-wide DNA methylation data in purified nCD4 T cells at quiescence and following activation in a cohort of adolescents (aged 10-15 years old) with peanut allergy (peanut only or peanut + ≥1 additional food allergy) (FA, n = 29), and age-matched non-food allergic controls (NA, n = 18). Additionally, we assessed transcriptome-wide gene expression and cytokine production in these cells following activation.RESULTS: We found widespread changes in DNA methylation in both NA and FA nCD4T cells in response to activation, associated with the T cell receptor signaling pathway. Adolescents with FA exhibit unique DNA methylation signatures at quiescence and post-activation at key genes involved in Th1/Th2 differentiation (RUNX3, RXRA, NFKB1A, IL4R), including a differentially methylated region (DMR) at the TNFRSF6B promoter, linked to Th1 proliferation. Combined analysis of DNA methylation, transcriptomic data and cytokine output in the same samples identified an attenuated interferon response in nCD4T cells from FA individuals following activation, with decreased expression of several interferon genes, including IFN-γ and a DMR at a key downstream gene, BST2.CONCLUSION: We find that attenuated nCD4T cell responses from adolescents with food allergy are associated with specific epigenetic variation, including disruption of interferon responses, indicating dysregulation of key immune pathways that may contribute to a persistent FA phenotype. However, we recognize the small sample size, and the consequent restraint on reporting adjusted p-value statistics as limitations of the study. Further study is required to validate these findings.
The accumulation of myeloid cells, particularly tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), characterizes the tumor microenvironment (TME) of many solid cancers, including breast cancer. Compared to healthy tissue-resident macrophages, TAMs acquire distinct transcriptomes and tumor-promoting functions by largely unknown mechanisms. Here, we hypothesize the involvement of TME signaling and subsequent epigenetic reprogramming of TAMs. Using the 4T1 mouse model of triple-negative breast cancer, we demonstrate that the presence of cancer cells significantly alters the DNA methylation landscape of macrophages and, to a lesser extent, bone marrow-derived monocytes (BMDMs). TAM methylomes, dissected into BMDM-originating and TAM-specific epigenetic programs, implicated transcription factors (TFs) and signaling pathways involved in TAM reprogramming, correlated with cancer-specific gene expression patterns. Utilizing published single-cell gene expression data, we linked microenvironmentally-derived signals to the cancer-specific DNA methylation landscape of TAMs. These integrative analyses highlighted the role of altered cytokine production in the TME (eg, TGF-β, IFN-γ and CSF1) on the induction of specific TFs (eg, FOSL2, STAT1 and RUNX3) responsible for the epigenetic reprogramming of TAMs. DNA methylation deconvolution identified a TAM-specific signature associated with the identified signaling pathways and TFs, corresponding with severe tumor grade and poor prognosis of breast cancer patients. Similarly, immunosuppressive TAM functions were identified, such as induction of the immune inhibitory receptor-ligand PD-L1 by DNA hypomethylation of Cd274. Collectively, these results provide strong evidence that the epigenetic landscapes of macrophages and monocytes are perturbed by the presence of breast cancer, pointing to molecular mechanisms of TAM reprogramming, impacting patient outcomes.
RUNX proteins, such as RUNX2, regulate the proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes and osteoblasts. Haploinsufficiency of RUNX2 causes cleidocranial dysplasia, but a detailed analysis of Runx2+/- mice has not been reported. Furthermore, CBFB is required for the stability and DNA binding of RUNX family proteins. CBFB has two isoforms, and CBFB2 plays a major role in skeletal development. The calvaria, femurs, vertebrae and ribs in Cbfb2-/- mice were analyzed after birth, and compared with those in Runx2+/- mice. Calvarial development was impaired in Runx2+/- mice but mildly delayed in Cbfb2-/- mice. In femurs, the cortical bone but not trabecular bone was reduced in Cbfb2-/- mice, whereas both the trabecular and cortical bone were reduced in Runx2+/- mice. The trabecular bone in vertebrae increased in Cbfb2-/- mice but not in Runx2+/- mice. Rib development was impaired in Cbfb2-/- mice but not in Runx2+/- mice. These differences were likely caused by differences in the indispensability of CBFB and RUNX2, the balance of bone formation and resorption, or the number and maturation stage of osteoblasts. Thus, different amounts of CBFB and RUNX2 were required among the bone tissues for proper bone development and maintenance.
Natural infection as well as vaccination with live or attenuated viruses elicit tissue resident, CD8+ memory T cell (Trm) response. Trm cells so elicited act quickly upon reencounter with the priming agent to protect the host. These Trm cells express a unique molecular signature driven by the master regulators-Runx3 and Hobit. We previously reported that intranasal instillation of a subunit vaccine in a prime boost vaccination regimen installed quick-acting, CD8+ Trm cells in the lungs that protected against lethal vaccinia virus challenge. It remains unexplored whether CD8+ Trm responses so elicited are driven by a similar molecular signature as those elicited by microbes in a real infection or by live, attenuated pathogens in conventional vaccination. We found that distinct molecular signatures distinguished subunit vaccine-elicited lung interstitial CD8+ Trm cells from subunit vaccine-elicited CD8+ effector memory and splenic memory T cells. Nonetheless, the transcriptome signature of subunit vaccine elicited CD8+ Trm resembled those elicited by virus infection or vaccination. Clues to the basis of tissue residence and function of vaccine specific CD8+ Trm cells were found in transcripts that code for chemokines and chemokine receptors, purinergic receptors, and adhesins when compared to CD8+ effector and splenic memory T cells. Our findings inform the utility of protein-based subunit vaccination for installing CD8+ Trm cells in the lungs to protect against respiratory infectious diseases that plague humankind.
BACKGROUND: The tumor suppressor genes play a critical role in cellular and molecular mechanisms such as cell cycle processes, cell differentiation and apoptosis. Aberrant DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes and subsequent gene expression changes have shown to be involved in the initiation and progression of various malignancies including thyroid malignancies. In this review, we investigated what is known about the impact of promoter hypermethylation on the key tumor suppressor genes known to be involved in cell growth and/or apoptosis of thyroid cancer.METHODS: The most important databases were searched for research articles until June 2020 to identify reported tumor suppressor genes that are modulated by methylation modulation changes in thyroid carcinoma. Following the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 26 studies were reviewed using the full text to meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria.RESULTS: The tumor suppressor genes reviewed here are suggestive biomarkers and potential targetable drugs. Inactivation of RASSF1A, DAPK1, SLCFA8, and TSHR through aberrant epigenetic methylation could activate BRAF/MEK/ERK kinase pathways with potential clinical implications in thyroid cancer patients. RARβ2 and RUNX3 could suppress cell cycle and induce apoptosis in malignant cells. TIMP3 and PTEN could prevent angiogenesis and invasion through PIP3 pathway and arrest VEFG activity.CONCLUSION: The methylation status of key genes in various types of thyroid malignancies could be used in early diagnosis as well as differentiation of malignant and benign thyroid. This is valuable in drug repurposing and discovering alternative treatments or preventions in thyroid cancer.
Interferon gamma (IFN-γ) may be potential adjuvant immunotherapy for COVID-19 patients. In this work, we assessed gene expression profiles associated with the IFN-γ pathway in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Employing a case-control study from SARS-CoV-2-positive and -negative patients, we identified IFN-γ-associated pathways to be enriched in positive patients. Bioinformatics analyses showed upregulation of MAP2K6, CBL, RUNX3, STAT1, and JAK2 in COVID-19-positive vs. -negative patients. A positive correlation was observed between STAT1/JAK2, which varied alongside the patient's viral load. Expression of MX1, MX2, ISG15, and OAS1 (four well-known IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs)) displayed upregulation in COVID-19-positive vs. -negative patients. Integrative analyses showcased higher levels of ISGs, which were associated with increased viral load and STAT1/JAK2 expression. Confirmation of ISGs up-regulation was performed in vitro using the A549 lung cell line treated with Poly (I:C), a synthetic analog of viral double-stranded RNA; and in different pulmonary human cell lines and ferret tracheal biopsies infected with SARS-CoV-2. A pre-clinical murine model of Coronavirus infection confirmed findings displaying increased ISGs in the liver and lungs from infected mice. Altogether, these results demonstrate the role of IFN-γ and ISGs in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, highlighting alternative druggable targets that can boost the host response.
Respiratory viruses pose a continuing and substantive threat to human health globally. Host innate and adaptive immune responses are the critical antiviral defense mechanisms to control viral replication and spread. The present study is designed to determine the role of transcription factor Runx3 in the host immune response to influenza A virus (IAV) infection. As Runx3 is required for embryonic development, we generated an inducible Runx3 global knockout (KO) mouse model and found that Runx3 KO in adult C57BL/6 mice minimally affected thymic function under normal conditions and survival was at least 250 days post Runx3 deletion. We applied the mouse model to IAV infection and found that Runx3 KO resulted in a huge reduction (>85%) in numbers of total and antigen-specific pulmonary CD8+ cytotoxic T cells during IAV infection, while it had a minor effect on pulmonary generation of CD4+ T cells. To our surprise, this general KO of Runx3 did not significantly alter viral clearance and animal survival following IAV infection. Interestingly, we found that Runx3 KO significantly increased the numbers of pulmonary innate immune cells such as macrophages and neutrophils and the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines during IAV infection. We further found that Runx3 was strongly detected in CCR2+ immune cells in IAV-infected mouse lungs and was induced in activated macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs). As pulmonary CD8+ cytotoxic T cells play a central role in the clearance of IAV, our findings suggest that Runx3 KO may enhance host innate immunity to compensate for the loss of pulmonary CD8+ cytotoxic T cells during IAV infection.
The Runt-related transcription factor (Runx) family plays various roles in the homeostasis of cartilage. Here, we examined the role of Runx2 and Runx3 for osteoarthritis development in vivo and in vitro. Runx3-knockout mice exhibited accelerated osteoarthritis following surgical induction, accompanied by decreased expression of lubricin and aggrecan. Meanwhile, Runx2 conditional knockout mice showed biphasic phenotypes: heterozygous knockout inhibited osteoarthritis and decreased matrix metallopeptidase 13 (Mmp13) expression, while homozygous knockout of Runx2 accelerated osteoarthritis and reduced type II collagen (Col2a1) expression. Comprehensive transcriptional analyses revealed lubricin and aggrecan as transcriptional target genes of Runx3, and indicated that Runx2 sustained Col2a1 expression through an intron 6 enhancer when Sox9 was decreased. Intra-articular administration of Runx3 adenovirus ameliorated development of surgically induced osteoarthritis. Runx3 protects adult articular cartilage through extracellular matrix protein production under normal conditions, while Runx2 exerts both catabolic and anabolic effects under the inflammatory condition.
BACKGROUND: Cleidocranial dysplasia (CCD) is a rare skeletal dysplasia with significant clinical variability. Patients with CCD typically present with delayed closure of fontanels and cranial sutures, dental anomalies, clavicular hypoplasia or aplasia and short stature. Runt-related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) is currently the only known disease-causing gene for CCD, but several studies have suggested locus heterogeneity.METHODS: The cohort consists of eight subjects from five unrelated families partially identified through GeneMatcher. Exome or genome sequencing was applied and in two subjects the effect of the variant was investigated at RNA level.RESULTS: In each subject a heterozygous pathogenic variant in CBFB was detected, whereas no genomic alteration involving RUNX2 was found. Three CBFB variants (one splice site alteration, one nonsense variant, one 2 bp duplication) were shown to result in a premature stop codon. A large intragenic deletion was found to delete exon 4, without affecting CBFB expression. The effect of a second splice site variant could not be determined but most likely results in a shortened or absent protein. Affected individuals showed similarities with RUNX2-related CCD, including dental and clavicular abnormalities. Normal stature and neurocognitive problems were however distinguishing features. CBFB encodes the core-binding factor β subunit, which can interact with all RUNX proteins (RUNX1, RUNX2, RUNX3) to form heterodimeric transcription factors. This may explain the phenotypic differences between CBFB-related and RUNX2-related CCD.CONCLUSION: We confirm the previously suggested locus heterogeneity for CCD by identifying five pathogenic variants in CBFB in a cohort of eight individuals with clinical and radiographic features reminiscent of CCD.
INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to determine the role and mechanism of runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) in the development of asthma.METHODS: An asthma mouse model was constructed and validated by hematoxylin-eosin analysis of lung tissue and noninvasive enhanced pause (Penh) evaluation of airway hyperresponsiveness. Then, the levels of Runx3 and interleukin (IL)-12 in peripheral blood and lung tissue were detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and immunohistochemistry. By use Runx3+/- mice, the effect of Runx3 downregulation on ovalbumin (OVA)-induced asthma was investigated. After stimulated by different doses of IL-12, the expressions of Runx3, hypoxia inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), and NOD-like receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 (NLRP3) in BEAS-2B cells were tested through Western blot and immunofluorescence. Subsequently, BEAS-2B cells treated with 20 ng/mL IL-12 were divided into control, Runx3 overexpression negative control, Runx3 overexpression, HIF-1α inhibitor, and Runx3 overexpression + HIF-1α agonist groups. The Western blot, immunofluorescence, and ELISA indicators were tested repeatedly.RESULTS: The increased number of inflammatory cells and Penh value confirmed the success of the asthma mouse model. IL-12 expression was significantly increased, and Runx3 was reduced in asthma mice compared with wild-type mice. Meanwhile, the level of immunoglobulin E (IgE) in serum, cytokines in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and IL-12, HIF-1α, NLRP3 in the lung were significantly elevated in Runx3+/- mice. With the increase of IL-12 concentration, Runx3 protein expression decreased, while HIF-1α and NLRP3 expression increased. Further mechanistic studies suggest that Runx3 ameliorates IL-12-induced BEAS-2B injury by inhibiting HIF-1α/NLRP3 pathway.CONCLUSION: These results suggested that IL-12 contributes to the development of asthma by targeting HIF-1α/NLRP3 pathway through Runx3, thus providing a novel strategy for asthma therapy.
Comment in    Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2023 Feb;68(2):127-128.
DNA methylation is a crucial epigenetic modification in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and hepatitis C virus (HCV) can induce hepatocarcinogenesis. Nevertheless, the interaction mechanism between DNA methylation and HCV infection in HCC is still ambiguous. In this study, we performed a comprehensive meta-analysis to assess the contribution of DNA methylation in HCV-associated HCC. After four steps of literature screening, we finally obtained 33 qualified case-control studies for this meta-analysis. These studies consisted of 587 HCV-positive cancer tissues and 326 HCV-negative cancer tissues. Our results revealed that four genes (p16, GSTP1, APC, and RUNX3) were more hypermethylated in the HCV-positive liver cancer tissues than in the HCV-negative liver cancer tissues. In addition, the p16 gene was more hypermethylated in the HCV-positive paracancerous tissues than in the HCV-negative paracancerous tissues. Subgroup meta-analysis by geographical populations showed that p16 methylation was significantly higher in HCV-positive cancerous tissues from Japanese and Chinese. Besides, p16 methylation was significantly higher among patients (> 60 years) but not among the others (≤ 60 years). However, there was no obvious association between DNA methylation and other clinicopathological characteristics, including gender, tumor size, differentiation, and clinical stage. Our study suggested that DNA methylation could become potential biomarkers for HCV-associated HCC. DNA methylation contributed to the risk of HCV-associated HCC.
Ulcerative colitis (UC) results from a complex interplay between the environment, gut microbiota, host genetics, and immunity. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) regulates Th1/Th2 balance and, thus, the synthesis of cytokines and inflammation. We aimed to analyze the dependence of RUNX3 promoter 2 (P2) methylation level on: age, sex, body mass index (BMI), C-reactive protein (CRP), serum albumin, disease duration, Pediatric Ulcerative Colitis Activity Index (PUCAI), the Paris classification, and exposure to medications. This multicenter, cross-sectional study recruited hospitalized children with UC. Methylation of RUNX3 P2 was measured with methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes in the whole blood DNA. Sixty-four children were enrolled, with a mean age of 14.5 ± 2.8 years. Half of them were female (51.6%), and the average BMI Z-score was -0.44 ± 1.14. The mean methylation of RUNX3 P2 was 54.1 ± 13.3%. The methylation level of RUNX3 P2 did not correlate with age, sex, nutritional status, CRP, albumin, PUCAI, or the extent of colitis (Paris E1-E4). RUNX3 P2 methylation did not differ between patients recruited within two and a half months of diagnosis and children who had UC for at least a year. Current or past exposure to biologics, immunosuppressants, or steroids was not associated with RUNX3 P2 methylation. Methylation of RUNX3 promoter 2 in whole blood DNA does not seem to be associated with the characteristics of UC in children.
CD4+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) respond to environmental cues to permit or suppress inflammation, and atherosclerosis weakens Treg suppression and promotes plasticity. However, the effects of smoking plus morphine (SM + M) on Treg plasticity remain unknown. To determine whether SM + M promotes Treg plasticity to T helper 17 (Th17) cells, we analyzed the RNA sequencing data from SM, M, and SM + M treated Tregs and performed knowledge-based and IPA analysis. We demonstrated that (1) SM + M, M, and SM upregulated the transcripts of cytokines, chemokines, and clusters of differentiation (CDs) and modulated the transcripts of kinases and phosphatases in Tregs; (2) SM + M, M, and SM upregulated the transcripts of immunometabolism genes, trained immunity genes, and histone modification enzymes; (3) SM + M increased the transcripts of Th17 transcription factor (TF) RORC and Tfh factor CXCR5 in Tregs; M increased the transcripts of T helper cell 1 (Th1) TF RUNX3 and Th1-Th9 receptor CXCR3; and SM inhibited Treg TGIF1 transcript; (4) six genes upregulated in SM + M Tregs were matched with the top-ranked Th17 pathogenic genes; and 57, 39 genes upregulated in SM + M Tregs were matched with groups II and group III Th17 pathogenic genes, respectively; (5) SM + M upregulated the transcripts of 70 IPA-TFs, 11 iTregs-specific TFs, and 4 iTregs-Th17 shared TFs; and (6) SM + M, M, and SM downregulated Treg suppression TF Rel (c-Rel); and 35 SM + M downregulated genes were overlapped with Rel-/- Treg downregulated genes. These results provide novel insights on the roles of SM + M in reprogramming Treg transcriptomes and Treg plasticity to Th17 cells and novel targets for future therapeutic interventions involving immunosuppression in atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases, autoimmune diseases, transplantation, and cancers.
Disruption of T-cell differentiation is characteristic of airway inflammation in allergic asthma. How miR-19a works in asthma has not been completely elucidated. This study aimed to examine whether microRNA-19a regulates helper T-cell proliferation and to identify the factors involved and the underlying mechanisms. Our results showed that miR-19a levels were upregulated in parallel with a reduction in RUNX3 expression in a house dust mite (HDM)-induced murine model of asthma. A dual-luciferase reporter assay and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assay showed that RUNX3 was a direct target of miR-19a. Inhibiting the expression of miR-19a attenuated inflammation and mucus production, induced Th1 cells, suppressed the Th2 inflammatory response, and repressed dendritic cell (DC) maturation by increasing RUNX3 expression in WT asthmatic mice but not RUNX3+/- mice. In vitro experiments revealed that miR-19a inhibition could target RUNX3 to induce Th1 polarization and inhibit Th2 polarization by directly acting on naïve CD4+ T cells or indirectly mediating the maturation and antigen-presenting abilities of DCs. These findings indicate that miR-19a directly and indirectly regulates immunoinflammatory responses in asthma by targeting RUNX3.
In breast cancer, Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 3 (PARP3) has been identified as a key driver of tumor aggressiveness exemplifying its selective inhibition as a promising surrogate for clinical activity onto difficult-to-treat cancers. Here we explored the role of PARP3 in the oncogenicity of glioblastoma, the most aggressive type of brain cancer. The absence of PARP3 did not alter cell proliferation nor the in vivo tumorigenic potential of glioblastoma cells. We identified a physical and functional interaction of PARP3 with the histone H3 lysine 9 methyltransferase G9a. We show that PARP3 helps to adjust G9a-dependent repression of the adhesion genes Nfasc and Parvb and the hypoxia-responsive genes Hif-2α, Runx3, Mlh1, Ndrg1, Ndrg2 and Ndrg4. Specifically for Nfasc, Parvb and Ndrg4, PARP3/G9a cooperate for an adjusted establishment of the repressive mark H3K9me2. While examining the functional consequence in cell response to hypoxia, we discovered that PARP3 acts to maintain the cytoskeletal microtubule stability. As a result, the absence of PARP3 markedly increases the sensitivity of glioblastoma cells to microtubule-destabilizing agents providing a new therapeutic avenue for PARP3 inhibition in brain cancer therapy.
Background: Breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor in women. RUNX family has been involved in the regulation of different carcinogenic processes and signaling pathways with cancer, which is closely related to immunity and prognosis of various tumors, and also plays an important role in the development and prognosis of breast cancer. Methods: We discovered the expression of RUNX family through GEPIA Dataset and then evaluated the relationship between RUNX family and immune-related genes and the prognosis of breast cancer through analyzing TCGA database. A prognostic model was established and verified via cox proportional hazards regression model using R packages. We evaluated the accuracy of the prognostic model by Kaplan-Meier curves and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. Additionally, we obtained the relationship between the RUNX family and immune infiltration by TIMER database. Finally, the dual luciferase reporter assay was used to verify the regulation of RUNX3 on potential target genes ULBP2 and TRDV1, and the effects of ULBP2 and TRDV1 on the growth of breast cancer cells were explored by CCK-8, colony formation and wound healing assays. Results: We screened out RUNX family-regulated immune-related genes associated with the prognosis of breast cancer. These predictors included PSME2, ULBP2, IL-18, TSLP, NPR3, TRDV1. Then a prognosis-related risk score model was built using the independent risk factors to provide a clinically appropriate method predicting the overall survival (OS) probability of the patients with breast cancer. In addition, a further research was made on the functions of high risk immune gene ULBP2 and low risk immune gene TRDV1 which regulated by RUNX3, the results showed that down-regulation of ULBP2 suppressed breast cancer cell proliferation and TRDV1 had the opposite functions. The prognostic model we constructed could promote the development of prognostic, and was associated with lower immune infiltration. Conclusion: The expression of RUNX family was closely related to the prognosis of breast cancer. At the same time, RUNX family could modulate the functions of immune-related genes, and affect the development and prognosis of breast cancer. These immune-related genes regulated by RUNX family could be promising prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in breast cancer.
The Runt-related transcription factor (Runx) family has been suggested to play roles in stem cell regulation, tissue development, and oncogenesis in various tissues/organs. In this study, we investigated the possible functions of Runx1 and Runx3 in keratinocyte differentiation. Both Runx1 and Runx3 proteins were detected in primary cultures of mouse keratinocytes. Proteins were localized in the nuclei of undifferentiated keratinocytes but translocated to the cytoplasm of differentiated cells. The siRNA-mediated inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression increased expression of keratin 1 and keratin 10, which are early differentiation markers of keratinocytes. In contrast, overexpression of Runx1 and Runx3 suppressed keratin 1 and keratin 10 expression. Endogenous Runx1 and Runx3 proteins were associated with the promoter sequences of keratin 1 and keratin 10 genes in undifferentiated but not differentiated keratinocytes. In mouse skin, the inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression by keratinocyte-specific gene targeting increased the ratios of keratin 1- and keratin 10-positive cells in the basal layer of the epidermis. On the other hand, inhibition of Runx1 and Runx3 expression did not alter the proliferation capacity of cultured or epidermal keratinocytes. These results suggest that Runx1 and Runx3 likely function to directly inhibit differentiation-induced expression of keratin 1 and keratin 10 genes but are not involved in the regulation of keratinocyte proliferation.
Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, is an endemic parasitic disease of Latin America, affecting 7 million people. Although most patients are asymptomatic, 30% develop complications, including the often-fatal Chronic Chagasic Cardiomyopathy (CCC). Although previous studies have demonstrated some genetic deregulations associated with CCCs, the causes of their deregulations remain poorly described. Based on bulk RNA-seq and whole genome DNA methylation data, we investigated the genetic and epigenetic deregulations present in the moderate and severe stages of CCC. Analysis of heart tissue gene expression profile allowed us to identify 1407 differentially expressed transcripts (DEGs) specific from CCC patients. A tissue DNA methylation analysis done on the same tissue has permitted the identification of 92 regulatory Differentially Methylated Regions (DMR) localized in the promoter of DEGs. An in-depth study of the transcription factors binding sites (TFBS) in the DMRs corroborated the importance of TFBS's DNA methylation for gene expression in CCC myocardium. TBX21, RUNX3 and EBF1 are the transcription factors whose binding motif appears to be affected by DNA methylation in the largest number of genes. By combining both transcriptomic and methylomic analysis on heart tissue, and methylomic analysis on blood, 4 biological processes affected by severe CCC have been identified, including immune response, ion transport, cardiac muscle processes and nervous system. An additional study on blood methylation of moderate CCC samples put forward the importance of ion transport and nervous system in the development of the disease.
We present WhichTF, a computational method to identify functionally important transcription factors (TFs) from chromatin accessibility measurements. To rank TFs, WhichTF applies an ontology-guided functional approach to compute novel enrichment by integrating accessibility measurements, high-confidence pre-computed conservation-aware TF binding sites, and putative gene-regulatory models. Comparison with prior sheer abundance-based methods reveals the unique ability of WhichTF to identify context-specific TFs with functional relevance, including NF-κB family members in lymphocytes and GATA factors in cardiac cells. To distinguish the transcriptional regulatory landscape in closely related samples, we apply differential analysis and demonstrate its utility in lymphocyte, mesoderm developmental, and disease cells. We find suggestive, under-characterized TFs, such as RUNX3 in mesoderm development and GLI1 in systemic lupus erythematosus. We also find TFs known for stress response, suggesting routine experimental caveats that warrant careful consideration. WhichTF yields biological insight into known and novel molecular mechanisms of TF-mediated transcriptional regulation in diverse contexts, including human and mouse cell types, cell fate trajectories, and disease-associated cells.
Author information:(1)Beijing You'an Hospital,Capital Medical University, Beijing 100069, China Beijing Institute of Hepatology, Beijing 100069, China.(2)Beijing You'an Hospital,Capital Medical University, Beijing 100069, China.
The genetic factors of adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) development are only partially understood. The Runt-Related Transcription Factor (RUNX) gene family play a crucial role in hematological malignancies, serving both a tumor suppressor and promoter function. The aim of this study was the assessment of relative RUNX1 and RUNX3 genes expression level among adult ALL cases and a geographically and ethnically matched control group. The relative RUNX1 and RUNX3 genes expression level was assessed by qPCR. The investigated group comprised 60 adult patients newly diagnosed with ALL. The obtained results were compared with a group of 40 healthy individuals, as well as clinical and hematological parameters of patients, and submitted for statistical analysis. ALL patients tend to have significantly higher RUNX1 gene expression level compared with controls. This observation is also true for risk group stratification where high-risk (HR) patients presented higher levels of RUNX1. A higher RUNX1 transcript level correlates with greater leukocytosis while RUNX3 expression is reduced in Philadelphia chromosome bearers. The conducted study sustains the hypothesis that both a reduction and increase in the transcript level of RUNX family genes may be involved in leukemia pathogenesis, although their interaction is complex. In this context, overexpression of the RUNX1 gene in adult ALL cases in particular seems interesting. Obtained results should be interpreted with caution. Further analysis in this research field is needed.
Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is the leading cause of end-stage renal disease. Clinical features are traditionally used to predict DKD, yet with low diagnostic efficacy. Most of the recent biomarkers used to predict DKD are based on transcriptomics and metabolomics; however, they also should be used in combination with many other predictive indicators. The purpose of this study was thus to identify a simplified class of blood biomarkers capable of predicting the risk of developing DKD. The Gene Expression Omnibus database was screened for DKD biomarkers, and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in human blood and kidney were identified via gene expression analysis and the Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression. A comparison of the area under the curve (AUC) profiles on multiple receiver operating characteristic curves of the DEGs in DKD and other renal diseases revealed that REG1A and RUNX3 had the highest specificity for DKD diagnosis. The AUCs of the combined expression of REG1A and RUNX3 in kidney (AUC = 0.929) and blood samples (AUC = 0.917) of DKD patients were similar to each other. The AUC of blood samples from DKD patients and healthy individuals obtained for external validation further demonstrated that REG1A combined with RUNX3 had significant diagnostic efficacy (AUC=0.948). REG1A and RUNX3 expression levels were found to be positively and negatively correlated with urinary albumin creatinine ratio and estimated glomerular filtration rate, respectively. Kaplan-Meier curves also revealed the potential of REG1A and RUNX3 for predicting the risk of DKD. In conclusion, REG1A and RUNX3 may serve as biomarkers for predicting the risk of developing DKD.
T cell receptor-engineered T cells (TCR-Ts) have emerged as potent cancer immunotherapies. While most research focused on classical cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, the application of CD4+ T cells in adoptive T cell therapy has gained much interest recently. However, the cytotoxic mechanisms of CD4+ TCR-Ts have not been fully revealed. In this study, we obtained an MHC class I-restricted MART-127-35-specific TCR sequence based on the single-cell V(D)J sequencing technology, and constructed MART-127-35-specific CD4+ TCR-Ts and CD8+ TCR-Ts. The antitumor effects of CD4+ TCR-Ts were comparable to those of CD8+ TCR-Ts in vitro and in vivo. To delineate the killing mechanisms of cytotoxic CD4+ TCR-Ts, we performed single-cell RNA sequencing and found that classical granule-dependent and independent cytolytic pathways were commonly used in CD4+ and CD8+ TCR-Ts, while high expression of LTA and various costimulatory receptors were unique features for cytotoxic CD4+ TCR-Ts. Further signaling pathway analysis revealed that transcription factors Runx3 and Blimp1/Tbx21 were crucial for the development and killing function of cytotoxic CD4+ T cells. Taken together, we report the antitumor effects and multifaceted killing mechanisms of CD4+ TCR-Ts, and also indicate that MHC class I-restricted CD4+ TCR-Ts could serve as potential adoptive T cell therapies.
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a fatal human cancer featured with a tendency to metastasis and relapse. Increasing studies have emphasized the critical roles of circular RNAs (circRNA) in ESCC. This study targeted at a novel circRNA and uncovering its function and mechanisms in ESCC. Functional assays were implemented to evaluate proliferation and cell cycle of ESCC cells. Mechanistic analyses were conducted to explore the potential molecular mechanisms in ESCC cells. In vivo assay was also performed. Based on the collected data, circ_0001821 was highly expressed in ESCC cells. Circ_0001821 knockdown retarded ESCC cell proliferation and tumor growth, while promoting G2-M cell cycle arrest. With regard to its mechanism, RUNX3 promoted PVT1 transcription, further upregulating circ_0001821. Moreover, circ_0001821 sponged miR-423-5p to upregulate BTRC, thus promoting IKBA ubiquitination, and circ_0001821 decreased IKBA expression to activate NF-κB signaling pathway. Rescue assays demonstrated that circ_0001821 facilitated ESCC cell proliferation and cell cycle by downregulating IKBA. In summary, RUNX3-induced circ_0001821 switches on NF-κB signaling pathway via diminishing IKBA expression, functionally prompting ESCC cell proliferation and cell cycle.IMPLICATIONS: This study uncovered a novel molecular pathway in ESCC progression, which might provide potential biomarkers for ESCC diagnosis.
BACKGROUND: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Dysregulation of messenger RNAs (mRNA) has been recognized to be associated with HCC carcinogenesis and development. Polypeptide GalNAc Transferase 6 (GALNT6), an O-type glycosyltransferase, has been confirmed as tumor promoter in different cancers. However, the function of GALNT6 in HCC remains to be studied.METHODS: RT-qPCR and western blot experiments were, respectively, performed for evaluating RNA expressions and protein levels. Supported by bioinformatics analysis, mechanism assays were conducted for validating the potential relation between different genes. Functional assays were implemented to analyze HCC cell migration and invasion after different transfections.RESULTS: GALNT6 was aberrantly upregulated in HCC cells. Knockdown of GALNT6 could repress HCC cell migration and invasion. RUNX3 was verified to bind to GALNT6 promoter and activate GALNT6 transcription. GALNT6 depletion led to inhibited O-glycosylation and aggravated degradation of MUC1. MUC1 overexpression could rescue the impeded HCC cell migration and invasion induced by GALNT6 knockdown.CONCLUSION: To sum up, GALNT6 transcriptionally activated by RUNX3 mediated the O-glycosylation of MUC1, thus exerting promoting influence on HCC cell migration and invasion.
BACKGROUND: The decline in the quantity and quality of oocytes due to ovarian ageing in women is now a significant threat to reproductive health today as the concept of delayed fertility becomes widespread. However, the molecular mechanisms of natural ovarian ageing have not been fully elucidated.METHOD: Here, we used transcriptomic data from 180 normal ovarian tissues from GTEx V8 to analyze the expression profile of ovarian tissues from women with age segments of 20-29 (22 individuals), 30-39 (14 individuals), 40-49 (37 individuals), 50-59 (61 individuals), 60-69 (42 individuals), and 70-79 (4 individuals), respectively. XCELL was used to assess the infiltration score of 64 cell types of the ovary. WGCNA was used to characterize the co-expression network during the natural aging of the ovary. ClusterprofileR was used for functional enrichment analysis of co-expression modules. MsViper was used for master regulator analysis.RESULTS: The infiltration score of endothelial cells and activated antigen-presenting cells during natural ovarian ageing increased significantly at ages 30-39, 40-49, and then decreased, whereas CD4+ Tcm increased with age. WGCNA identified six co-expression modules from ovarian tissue transcriptomic data species. The red module was significantly and positively correlated with senescence and CD4+ Tcm, and the turquoise module was significantly and positively correlated with Endothelial Cells. We further explored ovarian tissue for women aged 20-29 and 30-39 years. The GSEA results showed that the Chemokine signaling pathway was significantly activated in the 30-39-year-old group, while Oocyte meiosis was significantly inhibited. Finally, the results of msviper found that transcription factors such as KDM1A, PRDM5, ZNF726, PPARG, FOXJ2, and GLI2 were mainly activated in the 20-29 years group, while VAV1, RUNX3, ZC3H12D, MYCL, and IRF5 were mainly activated in the 30-39 years group and that these transcription factor activities were diagnostic of natural ovarian ageing (AUC: 0.65-0.71).CONCLUSION: Natural ageing of the ovary is significantly correlated with immune cell infiltration and activation of inflammation-related signaling pathways, with inflammation levels reaching a maximum during early ovarian ageing (30-39, 40-49) and then gradually decreasing after that. These studies provide a research basis for exploring the mechanisms of natural ovarian ageing.
BACKGROUND: Invasive lobular breast carcinoma (ILC), the second most prevalent histological subtype of breast cancer, exhibits unique molecular features compared with the more common invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). While genomic and transcriptomic features of ILC and IDC have been characterized, genome-wide chromatin accessibility pattern differences between ILC and IDC remain largely unexplored.METHODS: Here, we characterized tumor-intrinsic chromatin accessibility differences between ILC and IDC using primary tumors from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) breast cancer assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with sequencing (ATAC-seq) dataset.RESULTS: We identified distinct patterns of genome-wide chromatin accessibility in ILC and IDC. Inferred patient-specific transcription factor (TF) motif activities revealed regulatory differences between and within ILC and IDC tumors. EGR1, RUNX3, TP63, STAT6, SOX family, and TEAD family TFs were higher in ILC, while ATF4, PBX3, SPDEF, PITX family, and FOX family TFs were higher in IDC.CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals the distinct epigenomic features of ILC and IDC and the active TFs driving cancer progression that may provide valuable information on patient prognosis.
Breast carcinogenesis is known to be instigated by genetic and epigenetic modifications impacting multiple cellular signaling cascades, thus making its prevention and treatments a challenging endeavor. However, epigenetic modification, particularly DNA methylation-mediated silencing of key TSGs, is a hallmark of cancer progression. One such tumor suppressor gene (TSG) RUNX3 (Runt-related transcription factor 3) has been a new insight in breast cancer known to be suppressed due to local promoter hypermethylation mediated by DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1). However, the precise mechanism of epigenetic-influenced silencing of the RUNX3 signaling resulting in cancer invasion and metastasis remains inadequately characterized. In this study, a biological regulatory network (BRN) has been designed to model the dynamics of the DNMT1-RUNX3 network augmented by other regulators such as p21, c-myc, and p53. For this purpose, the René Thomas qualitative modeling was applied to compute the unknown parameters and the subsequent trajectories signified important behaviors of the DNMT1-RUNX3 network (i.e., recovery cycle, homeostasis, and bifurcation state). As a result, the biological system was observed to invade cancer metastasis due to persistent activation of oncogene c-myc accompanied by consistent downregulation of TSG RUNX3. Conversely, homeostasis was achieved in the absence of c-myc and activated TSG RUNX3. Furthermore, DNMT1 was endorsed as a potential epigenetic drug target to be subjected to the implementation of machine-learning techniques for the classification of the active and inactive DNMT1 modulators. The best-performing ML model successfully classified the active and least-active DNMT1 inhibitors exhibiting 97% classification accuracy. Collectively, this study reveals the underlined epigenetic events responsible for RUNX3-implicated breast cancer metastasis along with the classification of DNMT1 modulators that can potentially drive the perception of epigenetic-based tumor therapy.
Comment in    Trends Immunol. 2022 Oct;43(10):780-781.
Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is one of the most common cyanotic congenital heart diseases (CHD) worldwide; however, its pathogenesis remains unclear. Recent studies have shown that circular RNAs (circRNAs) act as "sponges" for microRNAs (miRNAs) to compete for endogenous RNA (ceRNA) and play important roles in regulating gene transcription and biological processes. However, the mechanism of ceRNA in TOF remains unclear. To explore the crucial regulatory connections and pathways of TOF, we obtained the human TOF gene, miRNA, and circRNA expression profiling datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. After data pretreatment, differentially expressed mRNAs (DEmRNAs), microRNAs (DEmiRNAs), and circRNAs (DEcircRNAs) were identified between the TOF and healthy groups, and a global triple ceRNA regulatory network, including circRNAs, miRNAs, and mRNAs based on the integrated data, was constructed. A functional enrichment analysis was performed on the Metascape website to explore the biological functions of the selected genes. Then, we constructed a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and identified seven hub genes using the cytoHubba and MCODE plug-ins in the Cytoscape software, including BCL2L11, PIK3R1, SOCS3, OSMR, STAT3, RUNX3, and IL6R. Additionally, a circRNA-miRNA-hub gene subnetwork was established, and its enrichment analysis results indicated that the extrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway, JAK-STAT signaling pathway and PI3K-Akt signaling pathway may be involved in the pathogenesis of TOF. We further identified the hsa_circ_000601/hsa-miR-148a/BCL2L11 axis as a crucial signaling pathway axis from the subnetwork. This study provides a novel regulatory network for the pathogenesis of TOF, revealing the possible molecular mechanisms and crucial regulatory pathways that may provide new strategies for candidate diagnostic biomarkers or potential therapeutic targets for TOF.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) and SET domain bifurcated 1 (SETDB1, also known as ESET) are oncogenic methyltransferases implicated in a number of human cancers. These enzymes typically function as epigenetic repressors of target genes by methylating histone H3 K27 and H3-K9 residues, respectively. Here, we show that EZH2 and SETDB1 are essential to proliferation in 3 SCC cell lines, HSC-5, FaDu, and Cal33. Additionally, we find both of these proteins highly expressed in an aggressive stem-like SCC sub-population. Depletion of either EZH2 or SETDB1 disrupts these stem-like cells and their associated phenotypes of spheroid formation, invasion, and tumor growth. We show that SETDB1 regulates this SCC stem cell phenotype through cooperation with ΔNp63α, an oncogenic isoform of the p53-related transcription factor p63. Furthermore, EZH2 is upstream of both SETDB1 and ΔNp63α, activating these targets via repression of the tumor suppressor RUNX3. We show that targeting this pathway with inhibitors of EZH2 results in activation of RUNX3 and repression of both SETDB1 and ΔNp63α, antagonizing the SCC cancer stem cell phenotype. This work highlights a novel pathway that drives an aggressive cancer stem cell phenotype and demonstrates a means of pharmacological intervention.
GM-CSF-producing T helper (Th) cells play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent studies have identified a distinct population of GM-CSF-producing Th cells, named ThGM cells, that also express cytokines TNF, IL-2, and IL-3, but lack expression of master transcription factors (TF) and signature cytokines of commonly recognized Th cell lineages. ThGM cells are highly encephalitogenic in a mouse model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Similar to Th17 cells, in response to IL-12, ThGM cells upregulate expression of T-bet and IFN-γ and switch their phenotype to Th1. Here we show that in addition to T-bet, TF RUNX3 also contributes to the Th1 switch of ThGM cells. T-bet-deficient ThGM cells in the CNS of mice with EAE had low expression of RUNX3, and knockdown of RUNX3 expression in ThGM cells abrogated the Th1-inducing effect of IL-12. Comparison of ThGM and Th1 cell transcriptomes showed that ThGM cells expressed a set of TFs known to inhibit the development of other Th lineages. Lack of expression of lineage-specific cytokines and TFs by ThGM cells, together with expression of TFs that inhibit the development of other Th lineages, suggests that ThGM cells are a non-polarized subset of Th cells with lineage characteristics.
Erratum in    Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2023 May 14;656:146-147.
The ectonucleotidase CD39 functions as a checkpoint in purinergic signaling on effector T cells. By depleting eATP and initiating the generation of adenosine, it impairs memory cell development and contributes to T cell exhaustion, thereby causing defective tumor immunity and deficient T cell responses in older adults who have increased CD39 expression. Tuning enzymatic activity of CD39 and targeting the transcriptional regulation of ENTPD1 can be used to modulate purinergic signaling. Here, we describe that STAT6 phosphorylation downstream of IL-4 signaling represses CD39 expression on activated T cells by inducing a transcription factor network including GATA3, GFI1, and YY1. GATA3 suppresses ENTPD1 transcription through prevention of RUNX3 recruitment to the ENTPD1 promoter. Conversely, pharmacological STAT6 inhibition decreases T cell effector functions via increased CD39 expression, resulting in the defective signaling of P2X receptors by ATP and stimulation of A2A receptors by adenosine. Our studies suggest that inhibiting the STAT6 pathway to increase CD39 expression has the potential to treat autoimmune disease while stimulation of the pathway could improve T cell immunity.
Recent studies highlighted that CD8+ T cells are necessary for restraining reservoir in HIV-1-infected individuals who undergo antiretroviral therapy (ART), whereas the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we enrolled 60 virologically suppressed HIV-1-infected individuals, to assess the correlations of the effector molecules and phenotypic subsets of CD8+ T cells with HIV-1 DNA and cell-associated unspliced RNA (CA usRNA). We found that the levels of HIV-1 DNA and usRNA correlated positively with the percentage of CCL4+CCL5- CD8+ central memory cells (TCM) while negatively with CCL4-CCL5+ CD8+ terminally differentiated effector memory cells (TEMRA). Moreover, a virtual memory CD8+ T cell (TVM) subset was enriched in CCL4-CCL5+ TEMRA cells and phenotypically distinctive from CCL4+ TCM subset, supported by single-cell RNA-Seq data. Specifically, TVM cells showed superior cytotoxicity potentially driven by T-bet and RUNX3, while CCL4+ TCM subset displayed a suppressive phenotype dominated by JUNB and CREM. In viral inhibition assays, TVM cells inhibited HIV-1 reactivation more effectively than non-TVM CD8+ T cells, which was dependent on CCL5 secretion. Our study highlights CCL5-secreting TVM cells subset as a potential determinant of HIV-1 reservoir size. This might be helpful to design CD8+ T cell-based therapeutic strategies for cure of the disease.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most prevalent and lethal malignancies. Exploring the underlying molecular mechanisms is very helpful for the development of new therapy. Here, we investigated the function of circMETTL3/miR-107/PER3 in CRC. Human CRC tissues from diagnosed CRC patients and six CRC cell lines, one normal human colon cell line were used. qRT-PCR and western blotting were performed to determine expression levels of RUNX3, circMETTL3, miR-107, PER3, and proliferation-, and migration-related proteins. CCK-8, colony formation assay, transwell assay, and scratch wound assay were utilized to assess CRC cell proliferation and invasion. ChIP, EMSA, biotin-pull down, RIP assay, and dual luciferase reporter assay were performed to validate interactions of RUNX3/METTL3 promoter, circMETTL3/miR-107, and miR-107/PER3. FISH was used to characterize circMETTL3. MSP was employed to measure methylation level. Nude mouse xenograft model was used to determine the effects on tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. RUNX3, circMETTL3, and PER3 were diminished while miR-107 was elevated in CRC tissues and cells. Low levels of RUNX3 and circMETTL3 correlated with poor prognosis of CRC. Overexpression of RUNX3, circMETTL3, or PER3 suppressed while miR-107 mimics promoted, CRC cell proliferation and invasion, as well as tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, RUNX3 bound to METTL3 promoter and activated circMETTL3 transcription. circMETTL3 directly bound with miR-107 which targeted PER3. circMETTL3/miR-107 regulated CRC cell proliferation and invasion via PER3. CircMETTL3, transcriptionally activated by RUNX3, restrains CRC development and metastasis via acting as a miR-107 sponge to regulate PER3 signaling.
Comment in    Sci Immunol. 2022 Jun 10;7(72):eabq1408.
Mental disorders present a global health concern and have limited treatment options. In today's medical practice, medications such as antidepressants are prescribed not only for depression but also for conditions such as anxiety and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Therefore, identifying gene targets for specific disorders is important and offers improved precision. In this study, we performed a genetic analysis of six common mental disorders-ADHD, anxiety, depression, delays in mental development, intellectual disabilities (IDs) and speech/language disorder-in the ethnic minority of African Americans (AAs) using whole genome sequencing (WGS). WGS data were generated from blood-derived DNA from 4178 AA individuals, including 1384 patients with the diagnosis of at least one mental disorder. Mutation burden analysis was applied based on rare and deleterious mutations in the AA population between cases and controls, and further analyzed in the context of patients with single mental disorder diagnosis. Certain genes uncovered demonstrated significant P-values in mutation burden analysis. In addition, exclusive recurrences in specific type of disorder were scanned through gene-drug interaction databases to assess for availability of potential medications. We uncovered 15 genes harboring deleterious mutations, including 3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Reductase (HMGCR) and Uronyl 2-Sulfotransferase (UST) for ADHD; Farnesyltransferase, CAAX Box, Beta (FNTB) for anxiety; Xin Actin Binding Repeat Containing 2 (XIRP2), Natriuretic Peptide C (NPPC), Serine/Threonine Kinase 33 (STK33), Pannexin 1 (PANX1) and Neurotensin (NTS) for depression; RUNX Family Transcription Factor 3 (RUNX3), Tachykinin Receptor 1 (TACR1) and NADH:Ubiquinone Oxidoreductase Core Subunit S7 (NDUFS7) for delays in mental development; Hepsin (HPN) for ID and Collagen Type VI Alpha 3 Chain (COL6A3), Damage Specific DNA Binding Protein 1 (DDB1) and NADH:Ubiquinone Oxidoreductase Subunit A11 (NDUFA11) for speech/language disorder. Taken together, we have established critical insights into the development of new precision medicine approaches for mental disorders in AAs.
BACKGROUND: An increasing number of studies have suggested that unveiling the molecular network of miRNAs may provide novel therapeutic targets or biomarkers. In this study, we investigated the probable molecular functions that are related to microRNA-802 (miR-802) and evaluated its prognostic value in breast cancer utilizing bioinformatics tools.METHODS: PPI network, pathway enrichment and transcription factor analysis were applied to obtain hub genes among overlapping genes of four miRNA target prediction databases. Prognosis value assessments and expression analysis of hub genes using bioinformatics tools, as well as their literature validation were performed.RESULTS: Our results showed a significant correlation of the miR-802 overexpression with poor patient survival rate (BC, p=2.7e-5). We determined 247 target genes significant for GO and KEGG terms. Analysis of TFs by TRUST showed that RUNX3, FOXO3, and E2F1 are possible TFs that regulate the miR-802 expression and target genes network. According to our analysis; 21 genes might have an important function in miR-802 molecular processes and regulatory networks. The result shows that among these 21 genes, 8 genes (CASC3, ITGA4, AGO3, TARDBP, MED13L, SF1, SNRPE and CRNKL1) are positively correlated with patient survival. Therefore these genes could be considered and experimentally evaluated as a prognostic biomarker for breast cancer.CONCLUSION: The comprehensive bioinformatics study on miR-802 target genes provided insight into miR-802 mediated pathways and processes. Furthermore, representing candidate target genes by prognostic values indicates the potential clinical application of miR-802 in breast cancer.
The effector programs of CD8+ memory T cells are influenced by the transcription factors RUNX3, EOMES and T-bet. How these factors define brain-homing CD8+ memory T cells in multiple sclerosis (MS) remains unknown. To address this, we analyzed blood, CSF and brain tissues from MS patients for the impact of differential RUNX3, EOMES and T-bet expression on CD8+ T cell effector phenotypes. The frequencies of RUNX3- and EOMES-, but not T-bet-expressing CD8+ memory T cells were reduced in the blood of treatment-naïve MS patients as compared to healthy controls. Such reductions were not seen in MS patients treated with natalizumab (anti-VLA-4 Ab). We found an additional loss of T-bet in RUNX3-expressing cells, which was associated with the presence of MS risk SNP rs6672420 (RUNX3). RUNX3+EOMES+T-bet- CD8+ memory T cells were enriched for the brain residency-associated markers CCR5, granzyme K, CD20 and CD69 and selectively dominated the MS CSF. In MS brain tissues, T-bet coexpression was recovered in CD20dim and CD69+ CD8+ T cells, and was accompanied by increased coproduction of granzyme K and B. These results indicate that coexpression of RUNX3 and EOMES, but not T-bet, defines CD8+ memory T cells with a pre-existing brain residency-associated phenotype such that they are prone to enter the CNS in MS.
Transcription factors ThPOK and Runx3 regulate the differentiation of "helper" CD4+ and "cytotoxic" CD8+ T cell lineages respectively, inducing single positive (SP) T cells that enter the periphery with the expression of either the CD4 or CD8 co-receptor. Despite the expectation that these cell fates are mutually exclusive and that mature CD4+CD8+ double positive (DP) T cells are present in healthy individuals and augmented in the context of disease, yet their molecular features and pathophysiologic role are disputed. Here, we show DP T cells in murine and human tumors as a heterogenous population originating from SP T cells which re-express the opposite co-receptor and acquire features of the opposite cell type's phenotype and function following TCR stimulation. We identified distinct clonally expanded DP T cells in human melanoma and lung cancer by scRNA sequencing and demonstrated their tumor reactivity in cytotoxicity assays. Our findings indicate that antigen stimulation induces SP T cells to differentiate into DP T cell subsets gaining in polyfunctional characteristics.
The two major subsets of peripheral T cells are classically divided into the CD4+ T helper cells and the cytotoxic CD8+ T cell lineage. However, the appearance of some effector CD4+ T cell populations displaying cytotoxic activity, in particular during viral infections, has been observed, thus breaking the functional dichotomy of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes. The strong association of the appearance of CD4+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CD4 CTLs) with viral infections suggests an important role of this subset in antiviral immunity by controlling viral replication and infection. Moreover, CD4 CTLs have been linked with anti-tumor activity and might also cause immunopathology in autoimmune diseases. This raises interest into the molecular mechanisms regulating CD4 CTL differentiation, which are poorly understood in comparison to differentiation pathways of other Th subsets. In this review, we provide a brief overview about key features of CD4 CTLs, including their role in viral infections and cancer immunity, and about the link between CD4 CTLs and immune-mediated diseases. Subsequently, we will discuss the current knowledge about transcriptional and epigenetic networks controlling CD4 CTL differentiation and highlight recent data suggesting a role for histone deacetylases in the generation of CD4 CTLs.
OBJECTIVES: Sjögren's syndrome (SS), a systemic autoimmune disorder, is characterized by dry mouth and eyes. However, SS pathogenesis is poorly understood. We performed bioinformatics analysis to investigate the potential targets and molecular pathogenesis of SS.METHODS: Gene expression profiles (GSE157159) and methylation data (GSE110007) associated with SS patients were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Differentially methylated positions (DMPs) and differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified by the R package limma. The potential biological functions of DEGs were determined using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses. Key DMPs were selected by overlap and the shrunken centroid algorithm, and corresponding genes were identified as hub genes, with their diagnostic value assessed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves. The potential molecular mechanisms of hub genes were analyzed by protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks and single-gene gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were collected from control and SS patients at The Affiliated Hospital of Southwest Medical University and Dazhou Central Hospital. The mRNA levels of hub genes were verified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR).RESULTS: We identified 788 DMPs and 2457 DEGs between the two groups. Functional enrichment analysis suggested that the DEGs were significantly enriched in T cell activation, leukocyte cell-cell adhesion, and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. TSS200, TSS1500, and 1stExon were identified as highly enriched areas of differentially methylated promoter CpG islands (DMCIs). In total, 61 differentially methylated genes (DMGs) were identified by the overlap of 2457 DEGs and 507 genes related to DMPs (DMPGs), of which 21 genes located near TSS200, TSS1500, and 1stExon were selected. Then, three key DMPs and the corresponding hub genes (RUNX3, HLA-DPA1, and CD6) were screened by the shrunken centroid algorithm and calculated to have areas under the ROC curve of 1.000, 0.931, and 0.986, respectively, indicating good diagnostic value. The GSEA results suggested that all three hub genes were highly associated with the immune response. Finally, positive mRNA expression of the three hub genes in clinical SS samples was verified by qRT-PCR, consistent with the GSE157159 data.CONCLUSIONS: The identification of three hub genes provides novel insight into molecular mechanisms and therapeutic targets for SS. Key Points • Hub genes were screened by DNA methylation and transcriptome analyses. • The relative expression of hub genes in peripheral blood samples was verified by qRT-PCR. • HLA-DPA1 was correlated with the pathogenic mechanism of SS.
Author information:(1)Department of Pharmacy, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong 637100, China.(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences & Forensic Medical, North Sichuan Medical College, Nanchong 637100, China.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) are involved in numerous fundamental biological processes and play crucial parts in tumorigenesis and metastasis both directly and indirectly. However, the pan-cancer evidence of the RUNX gene family is not available.METHODS: In this study, we analyzed the potential association between RUNX gene family expression and patient's prognosis, immune cell infiltration, drug response, and genetic mutation data across different types of tumors using based on The Cancer Genome Atlas, Gene Expression Omnibus, and Oncomine database.RESULTS: The results showed that the expression of the RUNX gene family varied among different cancer types, revealing its heterogeneity in cancers and that expression of RUNX2 was lower than that of RUNX1 and RUNX3 across all cancer types. RUNX gene family gene expression was related to prognosis in several cancers. Furthermore, our study revealed a clear association between RUNX gene family expression and ESTIMATE score, RNA stemness, and DNA stemness scores. Compared with RUNX1 and RUNX2, RUNX3 showed relatively low levels of genetic alterations. RUNX gene family genes had clear associations with immune infiltrate subtypes, and their expression was positively related to immune checkpoint genes and drug sensitivity in most cases. Two immunotherapy cohorts confirm that the expression of RUNX was correlated with the clinical response of immunotherapy.CONCLUSIONS: These findings will help to elucidate the potential oncogenic roles of RUNX gene family genes in different types of cancer and it can function as a prognostic marker in various malignant tumors.
ICAP-1 regulates β1-integrin activation and cell adhesion. Here, we used ICAP-1-null mice to study ICAP-1 potential involvement during immune cell development and function. Integrin α4β1-dependent adhesion was comparable between ICAP-1-null and control thymocytes, but lack of ICAP-1 caused a defective single-positive (SP) CD8+ cell generation, thus, unveiling an ICAP-1 involvement in SP thymocyte development. ICAP-1 bears a nuclear localization signal and we found it displayed a strong nuclear distribution in thymocytes. Interestingly, there was a direct correlation between the lack of ICAP-1 and reduced levels in SP CD8+ thymocytes of Runx3, a transcription factor required for CD8+ thymocyte generation. In the spleen, ICAP-1 was found evenly distributed between cytoplasm and nuclear fractions, and ICAP-1-/- spleen T and B cells displayed upregulation of α4β1-mediated adhesion, indicating that ICAP-1 negatively controls their attachment. Furthermore, CD3+ - and CD19+ -selected spleen cells from ICAP-1-null mice showed reduced proliferation in response to T- and B-cell stimuli, respectively. Finally, loss of ICAP-1 caused a remarkable decrease in marginal zone B- cell frequencies and a moderate increase in follicular B cells. Together, these data unravel an ICAP-1 involvement in the generation of SP CD8+ thymocytes and in the control of marginal zone B-cell numbers.
RUNX3 is a transcription factor dysregulated in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, its role in normal myeloid development and leukemia is poorly understood. Here we investigate RUNX3 expression in both settings and the impact of its dysregulation on myelopoiesis. We found that RUNX3 mRNA expression was stable during hematopoiesis but decreased with granulocytic differentiation. In AML, RUNX3 mRNA was overexpressed in many disease subtypes, but downregulated in AML with core binding factor abnormalities, such as RUNX1::ETO. Overexpression of RUNX3 in human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) inhibited myeloid differentiation, particularly of the granulocytic lineage. Proliferation and myeloid colony formation were also inhibited. Conversely, RUNX3 knockdown did not impact the myeloid growth and development of human HSPC. Overexpression of RUNX3 in the context of RUNX1::ETO did not rescue the RUNX1::ETO-mediated block in differentiation. RNA-sequencing showed that RUNX3 overexpression downregulates key developmental genes, such as KIT and RUNX1, while upregulating lymphoid genes, such as KLRB1 and TBX21. Overall, these data show that increased RUNX3 expression observed in AML could contribute to the developmental arrest characteristic of this disease, possibly by driving a competing transcriptional program favoring a lymphoid fate.
Adaptive CD4+ T helper cells and their innate counterparts, innate lymphoid cells, utilize an identical set of transcription factors (TFs) for their differentiation and functions. However, similarities and differences in the induction of these TFs in related lymphocytes are still elusive. Here, we show that T helper-1 (Th1) cells and natural killer (NK) cells displayed distinct epigenomes at the Tbx21 locus, which encodes T-bet, a critical TF for regulating type 1 immune responses. The initial induction of T-bet in NK precursors was dependent on the NK-specific DNase I hypersensitive site Tbx21-CNS-3, and the expression of the interleukin-18 (IL-18) receptor; IL-18 induced T-bet expression through the transcription factor RUNX3, which bound to Tbx21-CNS-3. By contrast, signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)-binding motifs within Tbx21-CNS-12 were critical for IL-12-induced T-bet expression during Th1 cell differentiation both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, type 1 innate and adaptive lymphocytes utilize distinct enhancer elements for their development and differentiation.
The purpose of this study is to investigate the significance of RUNX3/H3K27me3 co-expression in surgically resected non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Using tissue microarray (TMA), immunohistochemistry, fluorescent double immunostaining, and western blotting, 208 NSCLC and 5 benign pulmonary patients were studied of their expression of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), trimethylated histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27me3), enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), and Ki-67. Apoptotic index in cancerous tissue was evaluated via TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL). The correlation between clinicopathologic parameters and overall survival was determined by Cox regression and Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and log-rank test. GEPIA and KM plotter were used for validation of some survival analyses. As a result, together with other regular prognostic factors, RUNX3/H3K27me3 co-expression was found to be closely correlated with better prognosis in either pTNM-I or POCT-naive NSCLC patients, which might partially result from a higher cancerous apoptotic index. In conclusion, RUNX3/H3K27me3 co-expression defined some specific NSCLC population with better prognosis and longer OS and could probably be used as a biomarker in the prediction of better postoperative outcomes.
Sepsis is a life-threatening medical condition caused by a dysregulated host response to infection. Recent studies have found that the expression of miRNAs is associated with the pathogenesis of sepsis and septic shock. Our study aimed to reveal which miRNAs may be involved in the dysregulated immune response in sepsis and how these miRNAs interact with transcription factors (TFs) using a computational approach with in vitro validation studies. To determine the network of TFs, miRNAs, and target genes involved in sepsis, GEO datasets GSE94717 and GSE131761 were used to identify differentially expressed miRNAs and DEGs. TargetScan and miRWalk databases were used to predict biological targets that overlap with the identified DEGs of differentially expressed miRNAs. The TransmiR database was used to predict the differential miRNA TFs that overlap with the identified DEGs. The TF-miRNA-mRNA network was constructed and visualized. Finally, qRT-PCR was used to verify the expression of TFs and miRNA in HUVECs. Between the healthy and sepsis groups, there were 146 upregulated and 98 downregulated DEGs in the GSE131761 dataset, and there were 1 upregulated and 183 downregulated DEMs in the GSE94717 dataset. A regulatory network of the TF-miRna target genes was established. According to the experimental results, RUNX3 was found to be downregulated while MAPK14 was upregulated, which corroborates the result of the computational expression analysis. In a HUVECs model, miR-19b-1-5p and miR-5009-5p were found to be significantly downregulated. Other TFs and miRNAs did not correlate with our bioinformatics expression analysis. We constructed a TF-miRNA-target gene regulatory network and identified potential treatment targets RUNX3, MAPK14, miR-19b-1-5p, and miR-5009-5p. This information provides an initial basis for understanding the complex sepsis regulatory mechanisms.
Psoriasis vulgaris is a chronic immune-mediated dermatological condition, resulting from an interaction between environmental triggers and genetic susceptibilities. Alteration in the production of the inflammatory mediators plays a pivotal part in the pathogenesis of the disease. Genes encoding the mediators of these inflammatory pathways can dictate susceptibility to psoriasis. These genes have a wide range of functions that involve innate immunity (IFIH1, TRAF3IP2, CARD14, c-REL, DDX58), antigen presentation (HLA-Cw6), T-cells development, maturation, and polarization (RUNX1, RUNX3, STAT3), cytokine signaling (IL12Bp40, IL23Ap19, IL23R, JAK2), and immune regulators (TNIP1, TNFAIP3, IL36RN, SOCS1, ZC3H12C, NFKBIA). The risk alleles of these genes can contribute to the overall state of susceptibility to psoriasis by lowering the threshold of the innate immune response that can eventually provoke the pathogenic adaptive immune responses capable of inducing psoriasis. The investigations on genetic associations of psoriasis may allow the discovery of new diseases modifying targets and possibly open a path for the advancement of personalized medicine. They also allow us to discover new aspects of human skin biology.
BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is closely related to immunity and competitive endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) are believed to play a key role in the development of AD. Therefore, understanding the ceRNA network related to AD immunity will contribute to the identification of novel immunotherapeutic targets and provide new insights into AD from an immunological perspective.METHODS: Weighted gene coexpression network analysis (WGCNA) and Enrichr enrichment analysis were performed to identify the immune-related gene coexpression modules through microarray datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The differentially expressed long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) were identified from the microarray through differential analysis and mapped with related databases. Cytoscape was used to construct a lncRNA-miRNA-mRNA network. Subsequently, ImmuCellAI immune infiltration analysis was performed and a ceRNA sub-network of related core immune cells was constructed. Finally, the potential pathways related to these core factors were determined through gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA).RESULTS: Through WGCNA analysis and enrichment analysis, the blue module and the green module were identified as key modules related to AD immunity. Naïve CD8 cells were shown to be the key immune cells related to AD. Correlation analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves verified lncRNA Long Intergenic Non-Protein Coding RNA 472 (LINC00472), lncRNA HLA Complex Group 18 (HCG18), RUNX Family Transcription Factor 3 (RUNX3), Tensionin 1 (TNS1), Linker For Activation Of T Cells Family Member 2 (LAT2), and Solute Carrier Family 38 Member 2 (SLC38A2) as possible key targets related to AD immunity.CONCLUSIONS: The lncRNA LINC00472, lncRNA HCG18, RUNX3, TNS1, LAT2, and SLC38A2 identified in this study may be key targets related to AD immunity. These insights will provide future directions for the further AD research.
OBJECTIVE: This article investigated whether Runt-Related Transcription Factor 3 (RUNX3) and enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) can be used to evaluate the clinical efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy and prognosis of locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC).METHODS: Eighty LARC patients admitted to the Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute/Hospital and First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University from Jan 2015 to Jan 2016 were enrolled. The patients were followed up for 60 months through hospital visits. All patients received neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (long range radiotherapy + oral capecitabine) + total mesorecta excision (TME) surgery. The clinical efficacy of the treatments was evaluated through endoscopic, radiography, and tumor regression grade (TRG). In addition, expression level of RUNX3 and EZH2 was quantified via immunohistochemistry. The association of RUNX3 and EZH2 with clinicopathological characteristics of advanced tumors and efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy was explored. Logistic regression analysis was performed to identify predictors of efficacy of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. Survival curve was used to evaluate the impact of RUNX3 and EZH2 on the prognosis of LARC patients.RESULTS: A total of 80 patients diagnosed with LARC were enrolled in the study. Expression of RUNX3 was elevated in 25 (31.25%) patients, whereas expression of EZH2 was upregulated in 44 (55.00%) patients. Analysis of tumor regression identified 10 cases with TRG grade 0 (pathologic complete response, PCR), 24 cases with TRG grade 1, 35 cases with TRG grade 2, and 11 cases with TRG grade 3. Furthermore, 38 cases had significant down-staging, and 42 cases showed no significant down-staging as revealed by endoscopy and imaging. Patients with high expression of RUNX3 showed better tumor regression response and down-staging compared with those with low expression of RUNX3 (P < 0.001, P < 0.001). Moreover, patients with low EZH2 expression achieved TRG grade 0 and 1 response and down-staging effect compared with those with high expression of EZH2 (P < 0.001, P < 0.001). Logistic regression analysis showed that high expression of RUNX3, low expression of EZH2, and clinical N (cN) stage were good predictors of tumor regression response and down-staging. The 5-year disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were 48.75 (39/80) and 58.75% (47/80), respectively. The 5-year DFS and OS of patients with high RUNX3 expression were significantly higher than low RUNX3 expression, whereas the 5-year DFS and OS of patients with high EZH2 expression were significantly lower than low EZH2 expression (P < 0.001). Univariate survival analysis showed that RUNX3 expression, EZH2 expression, cN, clinical T (cT), pathological T (pT) and pathological N (pN) were significantly correlated with the 5-year DFS and 5-year OS. Multivariate survival analysis showed that EZH2 expression and PN were good predictors of 5-year DFS and 5-year OS, whereas RUNX3 was a good predictor of 5-year DFS but not 5-year OS.CONCLUSIONS: Expression level of RUNX3 and EZH2 accurately predicts clinical efficacy of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and the prognosis of LARC patients, suggesting that RUNX3 and EZH2 can be used as pivotal clinical predictors for LARC.
BACKGROUND: Targeting glutamine metabolism is previously indicated as a potential and attractive strategy for gastric cancer (GC) therapy. However, the underlying mechanisms responsible for the modification of glutamine metabolism in GC cells have not been fully elucidated. Accordingly, the current study sought to investigate the physiological mechanisms of RUNX3-mediated circDYRK1A in glutamine metabolism of GC.METHODS: Firstly, GC tissues and adjacent normal tissues were obtained from 50 GC patients to determine circDYRK1A expression in GC tissues. Next, the binding affinity among RUNX3, circDYRK1A, miR-889-3p, and FBXO4 was detected to clarify the mechanistic basis. Moreover, GC cells were subjected to ectopic expression and knockdown manipulations of circDYRK1A, miR-889-3p, and/or FBXO4 to assay GC cell malignant phenotypes, levels of glutamine, glutamic acid, and α-KG in cell supernatant and glutamine metabolism-related proteins (GLS and GDH). Finally, nude mice were xenografted with GC cells to explore the in vivo effects of circDYRK1A on the tumorigenicity and apoptosis.RESULTS: circDYRK1A was found to be poorly expressed in GC tissues. RUNX3 was validated to bind to the circDYRK1A promoter, and circDYRK1A functioned as a miR-889-3p sponge to up-regulate FBXO4 expression. Moreover, RUNX3-upregulated circDYRK1A reduced levels of glutamine, glutamic acid, and α-KG, and protein levels of GLS and GDH, and further diminished malignant phenotypes in vitro. Furthermore, in vivo experimentation substantiated that circDYRK1A inhibited the tumorigenicity and augmented the apoptosis in GC.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, these findings highlighted the significance and mechanism of RUNX3-mediated circDYRK1A in suppressing glutamine metabolism in GC via the miR-889-3p/FBXO4 axis.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common reasons for cancer-related deaths. Excess iron increases HCC risk. Inevitably, hepcidin, the iron hormone that maintains systemic iron homoeostasis is involved in HCC pathology. Distinct from other cancers that show high hepcidin expression, HCC patients can show low hepcidin levels. Thus, it is of immense clinical benefit to address the regulation and action of hepcidin in HCC as this may help in identifying molecular targets for diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutics. Accordingly, this review explores hepcidin in HCC. It presents the levels of tissue and serum hepcidin and explains the mechanisms that contribute to hepcidin reduction in HCC. These include downregulation of HAMP, TfR2, HJV, ALK2 and circular RNA circ_0004913, upregulation of matriptase-2 and GDF15, inactivation of RUNX3 and mutation in TP53. The enigmas around mir-122 and the functionalities of two major hepcidin inducers BMP6 and IL6 in relation to hepcidin in HCC are discussed. Effects of hepcidin downregulation are explained, specifically, increased cancer proliferation via activation of CDK1/STAT3 pathway and increased HCC risk due to reduction in a hepcidin-mediated protective effect against hepatic stellate cell activation. Hepcidin-ferroportin axis in HCC is addressed. Finally, the role of hepcidin in the diagnosis, prognosis and therapeutics of HCC is highlighted.
OBJECTIVES: Ziyin Huatan Recipe (ZYHT), a traditional Chinese medicine comprised of Lilii Bulbus, Pinelliae Rhizoma, and Hedyotis Diffusa, has shown promise in treating gastric cancer (GC). However, its potential mechanism has not yet been clearly addressed. This study aimed to predict targets and molecular mechanisms of ZYHT in treating GC by network pharmacology analysis and to explore the role of ZYHT in GC both in vitro and in vivo.METHODS: Targets and molecular mechanisms of ZYHT were predicted via network pharmacology analysis. The effects of ZYHT on the expression of metastasis-associated targets were further validated by Western blot and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. To explore the specific molecular mechanisms of the effects of ZYHT on migration and invasion, the runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene was knocked out by clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/Cas9, and lentiviral vectors were transfected into SGC-7901 cells. Then lung metastasis model of GC in nude mice was established to explore the anti-metastasis effect of ZYHT. Western blot and immunohistochemistry were used to explore the impact of ZYHT on the expression of metastasis-related proteins with or without RUNX3 gene.RESULTS: The network pharmacology analysis showed that ZYHT might inhibit focal adhesion, migration, invasion and metastasis of GC. ZYHT inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of GC cells in vitro via regulating the expression of metastasis-associated targets. Knocking out RUNX3 almost completely reversed the cell phenotypes (migration and invasion) and protein expression levels elicited by ZYHT. In vivo studies showed that ZYHT inhibited the metastasis of GC cells to the lung and prolonged the survival time of the nude mice. Knocking out RUNX3 partly reversed the metastasis of GC cells to the lung and the protein expression levels elicited by ZYHT.CONCLUSION: ZYHT can effectively inhibit the invasion and migration of GC in vitro and in vivo, and its molecular mechanism may relate to the upregulation of RUNX3 expression.
BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence of antibody-independent functions, as well as the clinical efficacy of anti-CD20 depleting therapies, helped to reassess the contribution of B cells during multiple sclerosis (MS) pathogenesis.OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether CD19+ B cells may share expression of the serine-protease granzyme-B (GzmB), resembling classical cytotoxic CD8+ T lymphocytes, in the peripheral blood from relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients.METHODS: In this study, 104 RRMS patients during different treatments and 58 healthy donors were included. CD8, CD19, Runx3, and GzmB expression was assessed by flow cytometry analyses.RESULTS: RRMS patients during fingolimod (FTY) and natalizumab (NTZ) treatment showed increased percentage of circulating CD8+GzmB+ T lymphocytes when compared to healthy volunteers. An increase in circulating CD19+GzmB+ B cells was observed in RRMS patients during FTY and NTZ therapies when compared to glatiramer (GA), untreated RRMS patients, and healthy donors but not when compared to interferon-β (IFN). Moreover, regarding Runx3, the transcriptional factor classically associated with cytotoxicity in CD8+ T lymphocytes, the expression of GzmB was significantly higher in CD19+Runx3+-expressing B cells when compared to CD19+Runx3- counterparts in RRMS patients.CONCLUSIONS: CD19+ B cells may exhibit cytotoxic behavior resembling CD8+ T lymphocytes in MS patients during different treatments. In the future, monitoring "cytotoxic" subsets might become an accessible marker for investigating MS pathophysiology and even for the development of new therapeutic interventions.
The response of naive CD8+ T cells to their cognate antigen involves rapid and broad changes to gene expression that are coupled with extensive chromatin remodeling, but the mechanisms governing these changes are not fully understood. Here, we investigated how these changes depend on the basic leucine zipper ATF-like transcription factor Batf, which is essential for the early phases of the process. Through genome scale profiling, we characterized the role of Batf in chromatin organization at several levels, including the accessibility of key regulatory regions, the expression of their nearby genes, and the interactions that these regions form with each other and with key transcription factors. We identified a core network of transcription factors that cooperated with Batf, including Irf4, Runx3, and T-bet, as indicated by their colocalization with Batf and their binding in regions whose accessibility, interactions, and expression of nearby genes depend on Batf. We demonstrated the synergistic activity of this network by overexpressing the different combinations of these genes in fibroblasts. Batf and Irf4, but not Batf alone, were sufficient to increase accessibility and transcription of key loci, normally associated with T cell function. Addition of Runx3 and T-bet further contributed to fine-tuning of these changes and was essential for establishing chromatin loops characteristic of T cells. These data provide a resource for studying the epigenomic and transcriptomic landscape of effector differentiation of cytotoxic T cells and for investigating the interdependency between transcription factors and its effects on the epigenome and transcriptome of primary cells.
The underlying mechanisms of thymocyte development and lineage determination remain incompletely understood, and the emerging evidences demonstrated that RNA binding proteins (RBPs) are deeply involved in governing T cell fate in thymus. Serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 1 (SRSF1), as a classical splicing factor, is a pivotal RBP for gene expression in various biological processes. Our recent study demonstrated that SRSF1 plays essential roles in the development of late thymocytes by modulating the T cell regulatory gene networks post-transcriptionally, which are critical in response to type I interferon signaling for supporting thymocyte maturation. Here, we report SRSF1 also contributes to the determination of the CD8+ T cell fate. By specific ablation of SRSF1 in CD4+CD8+ double positive (DP) thymocytes, we found that SRSF1 deficiency impaired the maturation of late thymocytes and diminished the output of both CD4+ and CD8+ single positive T cells. Interestingly, the ratio of mature CD4+ to CD8+ cells was notably altered and more severe defects were exhibited in CD8+ lineage than those in CD4+ lineage, reflecting the specific function of SRSF1 in CD8+ T cell fate decision. Mechanistically, SRSF1-deficient cells downregulate their expression of Runx3, which is a crucial transcriptional regulator in sustaining CD8+ single positive (SP) thymocyte development and lineage choice. Moreover, forced expression of Runx3 partially rectified the defects in SRSF1-deficient CD8+ thymocyte maturation. Thus, our data uncovered the previous unknown role of SRSF1 in establishment of CD8+ cell identity.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNA-20a (miR-20a) is dysregulated in many types of malignancies, including human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its expression level and functional significance in HCC are still disputed. We aimed to study the role of miR-20a-5p in HCC and its downstream molecular mechanisms.METHODS: We used real-time polymerase chain reaction to detect the expression of miR-20a-5p and runt-related transcription factor 3 ( RUNX3 ) in HCC and paraneoplastic tissue, transfected Huh7 and highly metastatic human hepatocellular carcinoma (MHCC97H) cells. A live cell workstation was used to observe the proliferation and migration of transfected cells. The invasiveness of transfected cells was verified by Transwell assay. Cell apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry. The expression levels of proteins after transfection were measured using simple western immunoblot measurements. Gene expression profiles between HCC and normal samples were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment results were processed by the database for annotation, visualization and integrated discovery. Potential target genes of miR-20a-5p were predicted to further investigate how miR-20a-5p regulates epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in HCC.RESULTS: MiR-20a-5p was significantly highly expressed in HCC tissues, and overexpression of miR-20a-5p significantly promoted HCC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and inhibited apoptosis in vitro. The protein expression of E-cadherin was decreased and that of vimentin was increased after overexpression of miR-20a-5p in HCC cells. We discovered the intersection of genes from miRDB, miR TarBase, and TargetScan, obtained 397 target genes and finally focused on RUNX3. RUNX3 was not only reduced in HCC specimens but also drastically reduced in HCC cells overexpressing miR-20a-5p. RUNX3 expression decreased with elevated miR-20a-5p, which activated downstream EMT signaling and promoted cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.CONCLUSIONS: Since RUNX3 is involved in EMT in HCC, as proven by previous research, our findings provide further evidence for a novel regulatory pathway comprising the miR-20a/RUNX3/EMT axis that upregulates EMT signaling and enhances the migration of HCC cells.
p53 deficiency and Myc dysregulation are frequently associated with cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms linking these two major oncogenic events are poorly understood. Using an osteosarcoma model caused by p53 loss, we have recently shown that Runx3 aberrantly upregulates Myc via mR1, a Runx consensus site in the Myc promoter. Here, we focus on thymic lymphoma, a major tumour type caused by germline p53 deletion in mice, and examine whether the oncogenic Runx-Myc axis plays a notable role in the development of p53-deficient lymphoma. Mice lacking p53 specifically in thymocytes (LP mice) mostly succumbed to thymic lymphoma. Runx1 and Myc were upregulated in LP mouse lymphoma compared with the normal thymus. Depletion of Runx1 or Myc prolonged the lifespan of LP mice and suppressed lymphoma development. In lymphoma cells isolated from LP mice, knockdown of Runx1 led to Myc suppression, weakening their tumour forming ability in immunocompromised mice. The mR1 locus was enriched by both Runx1 and H3K27ac, an active chromatin marker. LP mice with mutated mR1 had a longer lifespan and a lower incidence of lymphoma. Treatment with AI-10-104, a Runx inhibitor, improved the survival of LP mice. These results suggest that Myc upregulation by Runx1 is a key event in p53-deficient thymic lymphoma development and provide a clinical rationale for targeting the Runx family in p53-deficient malignancies.
RUNX proteins belong to a family of transcription factors essential for cellular proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis with emerging data implicating RUNX3 in haematopoiesis and haematological malignancies. Here we show that RUNX3 plays an important regulatory role in normal human erythropoiesis. The impact of altering RUNX3 expression on erythropoiesis was determined by transducing human CD34+ cells with RUNX3 overexpression or shRNA knockdown vectors. Analysis of RUNX3 mRNA expression showed that RUNX3 levels decreased during erythropoiesis. Functionally, RUNX3 overexpression had a modest impact on early erythroid growth and development. However, in late-stage erythroid development, RUNX3 promoted growth and inhibited terminal differentiation with RUNX3 overexpressing cells exhibiting lower expression of glycophorin A, greater cell size and less differentiated morphology. These results suggest that suppression of RUNX3 is required for normal erythropoiesis. Overexpression of RUNX3 increased colony formation in liquid culture whilst, corresponding RUNX3 knockdown suppressed colony formation but otherwise had little impact. This study demonstrates that the downregulation of RUNX3 observed in normal human erythropoiesis is important in promoting the terminal stages of erythroid development and may further our understanding of the role of this transcription factor in haematological malignancies.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: RUNX transcription factors play pivotal roles in embryonic development and neoplasia. We previously identified the single missense mutation R122C in RUNX3 from human gastric cancer. However, how RUNX3R122C mutation disrupts stem cell homeostasis and promotes gastric carcinogenesis remained unclear.METHODS: To understand the oncogenic nature of this mutation in vivo, we generated the RUNX3R122C knock-in mice. Stomach tissues were harvested, followed by histologic and immunofluorescence staining, organoid culture, flow cytometry to isolate gastric corpus isthmus and nonisthmus epithelial cells, and RNA extraction for transcriptomic analysis.RESULTS: The corpus tissue of RUNX3R122C/R122C homozygous mice showed a precancerous phenotype such as spasmolytic polypeptide-expressing metaplasia. We observed mucous neck cell hyperplasia; massive reduction of pit, parietal, and chief cell populations; as well as a dramatic increase in the number of rapidly proliferating isthmus stem/progenitor cells in the corpus of RUNX3R122C/R122C mice. Transcriptomic analyses of the isolated epithelial cells showed that the cell-cycle-related MYC target gene signature was enriched in the corpus epithelial cells of RUNX3R122C/R122C mice compared with the wild-type corpus. Mechanistically, RUNX3R122C mutant protein disrupted the regulation of the restriction point where cells decide to enter either a proliferative or quiescent state, thereby driving stem cell expansion and limiting the ability of cells to terminally differentiate.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX3R122C missense mutation is associated with the continuous cycling of isthmus stem/progenitor cells, maturation arrest, and development of a precancerous state. This work highlights the importance of RUNX3 in the prevention of metaplasia and gastric cancer.
BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence has indicated that runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene polymorphism (rs7528484) is associated with an alimentary system cancer risk. However, the role of rs7528484 in colorectal cancer is still unclear. The present study aimed to explore the association between rs7528484 and colorectal cancer susceptibility in a Chinese Han population.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We firstly investigated the effect of the polymorphism rs7528484 in distal promoter of RUNX3 polymorphism on colorectal cancer risk in a Chinese Han population comprising 427 colorectal cancer patients and 503 controls. We then carried out a phenotype-genotype association analysis to validate its influence on the adjacent gene RUNX3.RESULTS: Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that the T allele of rs7528484 was significantly associated with an increased risk for colorectal cancer occurrence in our case-control study (odds ratio = 1.33; 95% confidence interval = 1.09-1.65; P = 0.005). In stratified analysis, the susceptibility of colorectal cancer in the T allele carriers increased among the smokers, III and IV tumor stage, and at the rectum. Furthermore, the T allele was significantly correlated with lower expression of RUNX3 in vitro.CONCLUSION: In summary, the current case-control and genotype-phenotype study provides convincing evidence that functional RUNX3 polymorphism (rs7528484) is related to colorectal cancer risk and is a plausible marker for the prediction of colorectal cancer.
This study attempted to investigate how clonal structure evolves, along with potential regulatory networks, as a result of multiline therapies in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). Eight whole exome sequencing (WES) and one single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) were performed in order to assess dynamic genomic changes in temporal consecutive samples of one RRMM patient from the time of diagnosis to death (about 37 months). The 63-year-old female patient who suffered from MM (P1) had disease progression (PD) nine times from July 2017 [newly diagnosed (ND)] to Aug 2020 (death), and the force to drive branching-pattern evolution of malignant PCs was found to be sustained. The mutant-allele tumor heterogeneity (MATH) and tumor mutation burden (TMB) initially exhibited a downward trend, which was then upward throughout the course of the disease. Various somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs) that had disappeared after the previous treatment were observed to reappear in later stages. Chromosomal instability (CIN) and homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) scores were observed to be increased during periods of all progression, especially in the period of extramedullary plasmacytoma. Finally, in combination with WES and scRNA-seq of P1-PD9 (the nineth PD), the intro-heterogeneity and gene regulatory networks of MM cells were deciphered. As verified by the overall survival of MM patients in the MMRF CoMMpass and GSE24080 datasets, RUNX3 was identified as a potential driver for RRMM.
Background: Ankylosing Spondylitis (AS) is a common form of inflammatory spinal arthritis with a complex aetiology and high heritability, involving more than 100 genetic associations. These include several AS-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) upstream of RUNX3, which encodes the multifunctional RUNT-related transcription factor (TF) 3. The lead associated SNP rs6600247 (p = 2.6 × 10-15) lies ∼13kb upstream of the RUNX3 promoter adjacent to a c-MYC TF binding-site. The effect of rs6600247 genotype on DNA binding and chromosome looping were investigated by electrophoretic mobility gel shift assays (EMSA), Western blotting-EMSA (WEMSA) and Chromosome Conformation Capture (3C). Results: Interrogation of ENCODE published data showed open chromatin in the region overlapping rs6600247 in primary human CD14+ monocytes, in contrast to the Jurkat T cell line or primary human T-cells. The rs6600247 AS-risk allele is predicted to specifically disrupt a c-MYC binding-site. Using a 50bp DNA probe spanning rs6600247 we consistently observed reduced binding to the AS-risk "C" allele of both purified c-MYC protein and nuclear extracts (NE) from monocyte-like U937 cells. WEMSA on U937 NE and purified c-MYC protein confirmed these differences (n = 3; p < 0.05). 3C experiments demonstrated negligible interaction between the region encompassing rs6600247 and the RUNX3 promoter. A stronger interaction frequency was demonstrated between the RUNX3 promoter and the previously characterised AS-associated SNP rs4648889. Conclusion: The lead SNP rs6600247, located in an enhancer-like region upstream of the RUNX3 promoter, modulates c-MYC binding. However, the region encompassing rs6600247 has rather limited physical interaction with the promoter of RUNX3. In contrast a clear chromatin looping event between the region encompassing rs4648889 and the RUNX3 promoter was observed. These data provide further evidence for complexity in the regulatory elements upstream of the RUNX3 promoter and the involvement of RUNX3 transcriptional regulation in AS.
Dermatomyositis (DM) is a systemic autoimmune disease. It's known that the number of regulatory T (Treg) cells was decreased in DM. Besides, Treg cells were increased after treatment in DM patients. Forkhead box P3 (Foxp3) is specifically expressed in Treg cells and Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX3) could regulate Foxp3 transcription. And our previous experiment showed that Homeobox D gene cluster antisense growth-associated long noncoding RNA (HAGLR) was up-regulated in DM patients. Here, we aimed to explore whether HAGLR regulated the differentiation of Treg cells through RUNX3-mediated transcription of Foxp3, thus affecting the progression of DM. The levels of HAGLR, Foxp3, and RUNX3 were examined by quantitative real-time PCR. The protein levels of Foxp3 and RUNX3 were examined by western blot. The proportions of Treg cells in CD4+ T cells were detected by flow cytometry. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was conducted to observe the histopathological changes of the muscle. RNA pull-down assay was performed to detect the interaction between HAGLR and RUNX3. A dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was conducted to examine the effect of HAGLR on the transcriptional regulation of Foxp3 by RUNX3. HAGLR was up-regulated and Foxp3 was down-regulated in DM patients. Besides, RUNX3 protein levels were decreased in DM patients, while its mRNA levels did not change significantly. The proportion of Treg cells was down-regulated in DM patients. In addition, interference with HAGLR could increase the levels of Foxp3, RUNX3 protein level, and the proportion of Treg cells. Besides, there was an interaction between HAGLR and RUNX3. We also found that knockdown of HAGLR and RUNX3 restored the increased Treg cells induced by HAGLR knockdown alone. In vivo experiments indicated that injection with adv-HAGLR increased Treg cell proportion and attenuated DM development. Interference with HAGLR could increase the protein levels of RUNX3, high levels of RUNX3 further promoted the expression of the Foxp3, thus restoring the number of Treg cells and easing the development of DM.
Cadmium (Cd) and lead (Pb) are ubiquitous in aquatic environments and most studies have examined the potential effects of Cd or Pb alone on aquatic organisms. In the present study, chronic effects of Cd and Pb, alone and in combination, on Bufo gargarizans were investigated by exposing embryos to these contaminants throughout metamorphosis. Significant reductions in body mass and snout-to-vent length were observed in B. gargarizans at Gosner stage 42 (Gs 42) and Gs 46 exposed to a Cd/Pb mixture. Single and combined exposure with Cd and Pb induced histological alterations of the thyroid gland characterized by reduced colloid area and thickness of epithelial cells. There was a significant decrease in the maximum jump distance of froglets exposed to Cd alone and the Cd/Pb mixture, and the jumping capacity showed a positive correlation with hind limb length and tibia/fibula. Moreover, single metals and their mixture induced reduction of endochondral bone formation in B. gargarizans. Transcriptomic and real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction results showed that genes involved in skeletal ossification (TRα, TRβ, Dio2, Dio3, MMP9, MMP13, Runx1, Runx2, and Runx3) were transcriptionally dysregulated by Cd and Pb exposure alone or in combination. Our results suggested that despite the low concentration tested, the Cd/Pb mixture induced more severe impacts on B. gargarizans. In addition, the Cd/Pb mixture might reduce chances of survival for B. gargarizans froglets by decreasing size at metamorphosis, impaired skeletal ossification, and reduction in jumping ability, which might result from dysregulation of genes involved in thyroid hormone action and endochondral ossification. The findings obtained could add a new dimension to understanding of the mechanisms underpinning skeletal ossification response to heavy metals in amphibians. Environ Toxicol Chem 2022;41:1228-1245. © 2022 SETAC.
[This retracts the article DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S249066.].
The precursors of TCRαβ+CD8αα+ intraepithelial lymphocytes (IEL) arise in the thymus through a complex process of agonist selection. We and others have shown that the proapoptotic protein, Bim, is critical to limit the number of thymic IEL precursors (IELp), as loss of Bim at the CD4+CD8+ double-positive stage of development drastically increases IELp. The factors determining this cell death versus survival decision remain largely unknown. In this study, we used CD4CreBcl2f/f mice to define the role of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 and CD4CreBcl2f/fBimf/f mice to determine the role of Bcl-2 in opposing Bim to promote survival of IELp. First, in wild-type mice, we defined distinct subpopulations within PD-1+CD122+ IELp, based on their expression of Runx3 and α4β7. Coexpression of α4β7 and Runx3 marked IELp that were most dependent upon Bcl-2 for survival. Importantly, the additional loss of Bim restored Runx3+α4β7+ IELp, showing that Bcl-2 antagonizes Bim to enable IELp survival. Further, the loss of thymic IELp in CD4CreBcl2f/f mice also led to a dramatic loss of IEL in the gut, and the additional loss of Bim restored gut IEL. The loss of gut IEL was due to both reduced seeding by IELp from the thymus as well as a requirement for Bcl-2 for peripheral IEL survival. Together, these findings highlight subset-specific and temporal roles for Bcl-2 in driving the survival of TCRαβ+CD8αα+ IEL and thymic IELp.
Author information:(1)Department of Interventional Surgery,the First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University,Zhangjiakou,Hebei 075000,China.(2)Department of General Surgery,the First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University,Zhangjiakou,Hebei 075000,China.
BACKGROUND: Investigating aberrant tumor-specific methylation in plasma cell-free DNA provides a promising and noninvasive biomarker for cancer detection.OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate methylation status of some promoter regions in the plasma and tumor tissues to find biomarkers for early detection of colorectal cancer.METHODS: This case-control study on seventy colorectal cancer patients and fifty matched healthy controls used Methylation-Specific High-Resolution Melting Curve analysis to evaluate the methylation of the selected promoter regions in converted genomic tissue DNA and plasma cfDNA.RESULTS: The methylation levels in selected regions of SPG20 (+24375 to +24680, +24209 to +24399, and +23625 to +23883), SNCA (+807 to +1013, +7 to +162, and -180 to +7), FBN1 (+223 to +429, +1 to +245, and -18 to -175), ITF2 (+296 to +436 and -180 to +55), SEPT9 (-914412 to -91590 and -99083 to -92264), and MLH1 (-13 to +22) were significantly higher in tumor tissues compared with normal adjacent tissues. The methylation levels of FBN1, ITF2, SNCA, and SPG20 promoters were significantly higher in the patient's plasma compared to patient's normal tissue and plasma of healthy control subjects. FBN1, SPG20, and SEPT9 promoter methylation had a good diagnostic performance for discriminating CRC tissues from normal adjacent tissues (AUC > 0.8). A panel of SPG20, FBN1, and SEPT9 methylation had a higher diagnostic value than that of any single biomarker and other panels in tissue-based assay (AUC > 0.9). The methylation of FBN1(a) and SPG20(a) regions, as the closest region to the first coding sequence (CDS), had a good diagnostic performance in plasma cfDNA (AUC > 0.8) while a panel consisted of FBN1(a) and SPG20(a) regions showed excellent diagnostic performance for CRC detection in plasma cfDNA (AUC > 0.9).CONCLUSION: Methylation of FBN1(a) and SPG20(a) promoter regions in the plasma cfDNA can be an excellent simple, non-invasive blood-based test for early detection of CRC.
OBJECTIVE: Breast cancer has become a fatal disease for women world-wide. Its incidence in China has been increasing yearly, and the identification of early-stage biomarkers is urgently required.METHODS: ANOVA was carried out in the case of a primary tumor, adjacent normal tissue, and tumor metastasis of breast cancer, and on pan-cancer samples using the genome-wide methylation data of 31 solid tumor Illumina Methylation 450K chips downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) website in September 2018. Methylation sites showing a significant difference (P ≤ 0.05) were screened and compared with the whole-genome methylation data of 31 other solid tumor species in the TCGA database using t-tests in order to screen the methylation sites of breast cancer-specific expression. The expression of the screened methylation sites was confirmed through pyrosequencing in 45 cases of breast cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer, and colorectal cancer.RESULTS: A total of 10 specific breast cancer methylation sites (cg13683194, cg07996594, cg21646032, cg07671949, cg21185686, cg03625109, cg16429070, cg23601468, cg24818566, and cg01240931) were analyzed; nine genes (C9orf125, RARB, ESR1, RUNX3, PCDHGB7, DBC1, PDGFRB, TIMP3, and APC) were involved. The overall effect was excellent; a total of 4 methylation sites (2 in the DBC1 gene [cg03625109 and cg24818566], 1 in the C9orf125 gene [cg13683194], and 1 in the PDGFRB gene [cg16429070]) could effectively distinguish breast cancer from 31 other cancer species. The pyrosequencing results revealed that 7 screened methylation sites could significantly distinguish between breast cancer, lung cancer, gastric cancer, and colorectal cancer samples; these sites could also specifically distinguish between luminal A, luminal B, HER2, and Basal-like types of breast cancer.CONCLUSION: The 10 breast cancer methylation sites screened in the present study can effectively distinguish breast cancer from 31 other solid tumors, and they are expected to be used as biomarkers for early screening of breast cancer.
Anemia is a major comorbidity in aging, chronic kidney and inflammatory diseases, and hematologic malignancies. However, the transcriptomic networks governing hematopoietic differentiation in blood cell development remain incompletely defined. Here we report that the atypical kinase RIOK2 (right open reading frame kinase 2) is a master transcription factor (TF) that not only drives erythroid differentiation, but also simultaneously suppresses megakaryopoiesis and myelopoiesis in primary human stem and progenitor cells. Our study reveals the previously uncharacterized winged helix-turn-helix DNA-binding domain and two transactivation domains of RIOK2 that are critical to regulate key hematopoietic TFs GATA1, GATA2, SPI1, RUNX3 and KLF1. This establishes RIOK2 as an integral component of the transcriptional regulatory network governing human hematopoietic differentiation. Importantly, RIOK2 mRNA expression significantly correlates with these TFs and other hematopoietic genes in myelodysplastic syndromes, acute myeloid leukemia and chronic kidney disease. Further investigation of RIOK2-mediated transcriptional pathways should yield therapeutic approaches to correct defective hematopoiesis in hematologic disorders.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The Runx family genes (Runx1, Runx2, Runx3, and Cbfb) are important transcriptional regulators in the development of various tissues. We herein highlight the roles of the Runx family genes in morphogenesis in the craniofacial regions and in the pathogenesis of congenital morphological problems in these regions.RECENT FINDINGS: A recent analysis using conditional Runx mutant animals and a human genetic study identified the novel roles of Runx genes in the development of the tooth, salivary glands, and the palate. In an animal study, Runx1/Cbfb signaling was found to regulate the Lgr5 expression and maintain the stem cells in the dental epithelium in the growing incisors. Aberrant Runx1/Cbfb signaling induced male-specific involution of the convoluted granular cell differentiation of the submandibular gland. In palatogenesis, Runx1/Cbfb signaling regulated the Tgfb3 expression in the fusing palatal epithelium through Stat3 activation. The combination of a human genetic study and a phenotype analysis of mutant animals revealed the various roles of Runx genes in the development of the tooth, palate, and salivary glands. Runx genes have functional redundancy in various tissues, which still hinder the roles of Runx genes in morphogenesis. Future studies may reveal the novel roles of Runx signaling.
T cell factor 1 (Tcf1) is known as a critical mediator for natural killer (NK) cell development and terminal maturation. However, its essential targets and precise mechanisms involved in early NK progenitors (NKP) are not well clarified. To investigate the role of Tcf1 in NK cells at distinct developmental phases, we employed three kinds of genetic mouse models, namely, Tcf7fl/flVavCre/+, Tcf7fl/flCD122Cre/+ and Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice, respectively. Similar to Tcf1 germline knockout mice, we found notably diminished cell number and defective development in BM NK cells from all strains. In contrast, Tcf7fl/flNcr1Cre/+ mice exhibited modest defects in splenic NK cells compared with those in the other two strains. By analyzing the published ATAC-seq and ChIP-seq data, we found that Tcf1 directly targeted 110 NK cell-related genes which displayed differential accessibility in the absence of Tcf1. Along with this clue, we further confirmed that a series of essential regulators were expressed aberrantly in distinct BM NK subsets with conditional ablating Tcf1 at NKP stage. Eomes, Ets1, Gata3, Ikzf1, Ikzf2, Nfil3, Runx3, Sh2d1a, Slamf6, Tbx21, Tox, and Zeb2 were downregulated, whereas Spi1 and Gzmb were upregulated in distinct NK subsets due to Tcf1 deficiency. The dysregulation of these genes jointly caused severe defects in NK cells lacking Tcf1. Thus, our study identified essential targets of Tcf1 in NK cells, providing new insights into Tcf1-dependent regulatory programs in step-wise governing NK cell development.
BACKGROUND: Intestinal metaplasia, gastric-to-intestinal transdifferentiation, occurs as a result of the misexpression of certain regulatory factors, leading to genetic reprogramming. Here, we have evaluated the H. pylori-induced expression patterns of these candidate genes.METHODS: The expression levels of 1) tissue-specific transcription factors (RUNX3, KLF5, SOX2, SALL4, CDX1 and CDX2), 2) stemness factors (TNFRSF19, LGR5, VIL1) and 3) tissue-specific mucins (MUC5AC, MUC2) were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR in gastric primary cells (GPCs), in parallel with two gastric cancer (MKN45 and AGS) cell lines, up to 96h following H. pylori infection.RESULTS: Following H. pylori infection of GPCs, RUNX3 declined at 24h post infection (-6.2 ± 0.3) and remained downregulated for up to 96h. Subsequently, overexpression of self-renewal and pluripotency transcription factors, KLF5 (3.6 ± 0.2), SOX2 (7.6 ± 0.5) and SALL4 (4.3 ± 0.2) occurred. The expression of TNFRSF19 and LGR5, demonstrated opposing trends, with an early rise of the former (4.5 ± 0.3) at 8h, and a simultaneous fall of the latter (-1.8 ± 0.5). This trend was reversed at 96h, with the decline in TNFRSF19 (-5.5 ± 0.2), and escalation of LGR5 (2.6 ± 0.2) and VIL1 (1.8 ± 0.3). Ultimately, CDX1 and CDX2 were upregulated by 1.9 and 4.7-fold, respectively. The above scenario was, variably observed in MKN45 and AGS cells.CONCLUSION: Our data suggests an interdependent gene regulatory network, induced by H. pylori infection. This interaction begins with the downregulation of RUNX3, upregulation of self-renewal and pluripotency transcription factors, KLF5, SOX2 and SALL4, leading to the downregulation of TNFRSF19, upregulation of LGR5 and aberrant expression of intestine-specific transcription factors, potentially facilitating the process of gastric-to-intestinal transdifferentiation.
The Hippo-YAP signaling pathway serves roles in cell proliferation, stem cell renewal/maintenance, differentiation and apoptosis. Many of its functions are central to early development, adult tissue repair/regeneration and not surprisingly, tumorigenesis and metastasis. The Hippo pathway represses the activity of YAP and paralog TAZ by modulating cell proliferation and promoting differentiation to maintain tissue homeostasis and proper organ size. Similarly, master regulators of development RUNX transcription factors have been shown to play critical roles in proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and cell fate determination. In this review, we discuss the multiple interactions of RUNX with the Hippo-YAP pathway, their shared collaborators in Wnt, TGFβ, MYC and RB pathways, and their overlapping functions in development and tumorigenesis.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) has been associated with the dysfunction of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported to be up-regulated in aneurysmal aorta samples compared with normal aorta. However, its function in VSMCs and the mechanism of function remains unknown. Therefore, our study aimed to investigate the role of RUNX3 in ECM remodelling and VSMC function, and further explore the underlying mechanism. Our results verified that RUNX3 was increased in aortic samples of AAA compared with healthy controls. Overexpression vectors of RUNX3 (ov-RUNX3) and siRNA of RUNX3 (si-RUNX3) were transfected into Human aortic smooth muscle cells (HAoSMCs). The results indicated that ov-RUNX3 promoted cell proliferation, migration, and MMP-2/3/9 secretion, and suppressed TIMP-1, collagen I/III, SM22, MYH11 and CNN1 expression in HAoSMCs. The silencing of RUNX3 has the opposite effect. Furthermore, we found that RUNX3 targets TGF-β1 and suppressed its transcription. The silencing of TGF-β1 increased cell proliferation, migration and MMP-2/3/9 expression, and inhibited TIMP-1, Collagen I/III, SM22, MYH11 and CNN1 expression. In addition, TGF-β1 reversed the effect of RUNX3 overexpression on HAoSMCs. Hence, our study indicated that RUNX3 promotes cell proliferation, migration, and ECM remodelling through suppressing TGF-β1.
RUNX1 is a transcription factor that plays key roles in hematopoietic development and in hematopoiesis and lymphopoiesis. In this article, we report that RUNX1 regulates a gene expression program in naive mouse B cells that affects the dynamics of cell cycle entry in response to stimulation of the BCR. Conditional knockout of Runx1 in mouse resting B cells resulted in accelerated entry into S-phase after BCR engagement. Our results indicate that Runx1 regulates the cyclin D2 (Ccnd2) gene, the immediate early genes Fosl2, Atf3, and Egr2, and the Notch pathway gene Rbpj in mouse B cells, reducing the rate at which transcription of these genes increases after BCR stimulation. RUNX1 interacts with the chromatin remodeler SNF-2-related CREB-binding protein activator protein (SRCAP), recruiting it to promoter and enhancer regions of the Ccnd2 gene. BCR-mediated activation triggers switching between binding of RUNX1 and its paralog RUNX3 and between SRCAP and the switch/SNF remodeling complex member BRG1. Binding of BRG1 is increased at the Ccnd2 and Rbpj promoters in the Runx1 knockout cells after BCR stimulation. We also find that RUNX1 exerts positive or negative effects on a number of genes that affect the activation response of mouse resting B cells. These include Cd22 and Bank1, which act as negative regulators of the BCR, and the IFN receptor subunit gene Ifnar1 The hyperresponsiveness of the Runx1 knockout B cells to BCR stimulation and its role in regulating genes that are associated with immune regulation suggest that RUNX1 could be involved in regulating B cell tolerance.
Osteosarcoma (OS) in human patients is characterized by genetic alteration of TP53. Osteoprogenitor-specific p53-deleted mice (OS mice) have been widely used to study the process of osteosarcomagenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the development of OS upon p53 inactivation remain largely unknown. In this study, we detected prominent RUNX3/Runx3 expression in human and mouse p53-deficient OS. Myc was aberrantly upregulated by Runx3 via mR1, a consensus Runx site in the Myc promoter, in a manner dependent on p53 deficiency. Reduction of the Myc level by disruption of mR1 or Runx3 knockdown decreased the tumorigenicity of p53-deficient OS cells and effectively suppressed OS development in OS mice. Furthermore, Runx inhibitors exerted therapeutic effects on OS mice. Together, these results show that p53 deficiency promotes osteosarcomagenesis in human and mouse by allowing Runx3 to induce oncogenic Myc expression.
RESEARCH QUESTION: What is the mechanism of hypermethylation of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) in the eutopic endometrium of endometriosis as biomarker in the malignant transformation of endometriosis?DESIGN: Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction was used to analyse the methylation status of RUNX3 in endometriosis-associated ovarian cancer (EAOC). Primary eutopic endometrial stromal cells (ESC) were isolated from the uteri of patients with ovarian endometriosis. After RUNX3 knockdown by RNA interference technology or ESC treated with oestradiol, the proliferation and invasion ability were evaluated in ESC by using 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) and transwell assays.RESULTS: The frequency of methylation of RUNX3 in neoplastic tissue in the EAOC group was significantly higher than that in the ectopic endometrium of the endometriosis group (P < 0.001), and the frequency of methylation of RUNX3 in the eutopic endometrium of the EAOC group was significantly higher than that in the endometriosis group (P < 0.001). However, there was no significant difference in the eutopic endometrium when compared between the endometriosis group and the control endometrium group (P = 0.233). Silencing RUNX3 promoted the proliferation and invasion of ESC (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001). Following intervention with oestrogen, it was observed that the oestradiol group showed higher levels of RUNX3 methylation (P < 0.001) and DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) mRNA and protein expression (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001), and lower RUNX3 mRNA and protein expression when compared with the ESC group (P < 0.001 and P < 0.001).CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that hypermethylation of the RUNX3 was related to the malignant transformation of endometriosis and that this process was related to corresponding changes in the eutopic endometrium. Furthermore, the 'oestrogen-DNMT1' signalling pathway may induce the hypermethylation of RUNX3 to promote the malignant transformation of endometriosis.
BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus (DM), a most common chronic disease, is featured with impaired endothelial function and bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO), while E3 ubiquitin ligase appears to alleviate endothelial dysfunction as a promising option for DM treatment. Herein, we aimed to determine whether E3 ubiquitin ligase casitas B-lineage lymphoma (Cbl) alleviates endothelial dysfunction in DM rats by JAK2/STAT4 pathway.METHODS: A rat model of DM was developed through intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin, followed by collection of aortic tissues to determine the expression of Cbl, JAK2, runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) and STAT4. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were cultured in high glucose (HG) condition to induce DM as an in vitro model. With gain- and loss-function method, we assessed the aberrantly expressed Cb1 on endothelial dysfunction, NO production and apoptosis of HUVECs.RESULTS: Cbl was reduced in DM rat tissues and HG-induced HUVECs, where JAK2, Runx3 and STAT4 were elevated. It was found that overexpression of Cbl alleviated endothelial dysfunction by increasing NO production and restoring vasodilation and suppressing apoptosis of HUVECs. Mechanistically, Cb1 enhanced JAK2 ubiquitination and decreased JAK2 and STAT4 expression, where STAT4 improved Runx3 expression by regulating histone H3 lysine 4 trimethylation level. Overexpression of JAK2 and STAT4, or Runx3 increased apoptosis of HUVECs, abrogating the effect of Cb1 on endothelial function.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, Cbl alleviates endothelial dysfunction by inactivation of the JAK2/STAT4 pathway and inhibition of Runx3 expression in DM. These evidence might underlie novel Cbl-based treatment against DM in the future.
The nature of genome organization into two basic structural compartments is as yet undiscovered. However, it has been indicated to be a mechanism of gene expression regulation. Using the classification approach, we ranked genomic marks that hint at compartmentalization. We considered a broad range of marks, including GC content, histone modifications, DNA binding proteins, open chromatin, transcription and genome regulatory segmentation in GM12878 cells. Genomic marks were defined over CTCF or RNAPII loops, which are basic elements of genome 3D structure, and over 100 kb genomic windows. Experiments were carried out to empirically assess the whole set of features, as well as the individual features in classification of loops/windows, into compartment A or B. Using Monte Carlo Feature Selection and Analysis of Variance, we constructed a ranking of feature importance for classification. The best simple indicator of compartmentalization is DNase-seq open chromatin measurement for CTCF loops, H3K4me1 for RNAPII loops and H3K79me2 for genomic windows. Among DNA binding proteins, this is RUNX3 transcription factor for loops and RNAPII for genomic windows. Chromatin state prediction methods that indicate active elements like promoters, enhancers or heterochromatin enhance the prediction of loop segregation into compartments. However, H3K9me3, H4K20me1, H3K27me3 histone modifications and GC content poorly indicate compartments.
BACKGROUND: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are non-coding RNAs that play a pivotal role in bone diseases. RUNX3 was an essential transcriptional regulator during osteogenesis. However, it is unknown whether RUNX3 regulates hsa_circ_0005752 during osteogenic differentiation.METHODS: The levels of hsa_circ_0005752 and RUNX3 were measured by qRT-PCR after osteogenic differentiation of ADSCs. The osteogenic differentiation was analyzed by Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining and Alizarin red staining (ARS). qRT-PCR and western blot were used to assess the expressions of osteogenic differentiation-related molecules. RNA pull-down, RIP, and luciferase reporter assays determine the interactions between miR-496 and hsa_circ_0005752 or MDM2 mRNA. CHIP-PCR analyzed the interaction between RUNX3 and LPAR1. Finally, the potential roles of RUNX3 were investigated during osteogenic differentiation with or without hsa_circ_0005752 knockdown.RESULTS: Hsa_circ_0005752 and RUNX3 were significantly increased, and miR-496 was remarkably decreased in ADSCs after osteogenic differentiation. Hsa_circ_0005752 could promote osteogenic differentiation, as shown by enhancing ALP and ARS staining intensity. Hsa_circ_0005752 enhanced the expressions of Runx2, ALP, Osx, and OCN. Furthermore, hsa_circ_0005752 directly targeted miR-496, which can directly bind to MDM2. RUNX3 bound to the LPAR1 promoter and enhanced hsa_circ_0005752 expressions. Moreover, the enhanced expression of hsa_circ_0005752 by RUNX3 could promote osteogenic differentiation, whereas knockdown of hsa_circ_0005752 partially antagonized the effects of RUNX3.CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that RUNX3 promoted osteogenic differentiation via regulating the hsa_circ_0005752/miR-496/MDM2 axis and thus provided a new therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis.
This study aims to construct a composite system of the tri-block polyethylene glycol injectable hydrogel (3B-PEG IH) and neural epithelial growth factor-like protein 1 (Nell-1), and to analyze its therapeutic effect on temporomandibular joint osteoarthritis (TMJOA). Sol-gel transition temperature was measured via inverting test. The viscoelastic modulus curves was measured by rheometer. Degradation and controlled release profiles of 3B-PEG IH were drawnin vitro.In vivogel retention and biocompatibility were completed subcutaneously on the back of rats. After primary chondrocytes were extracted and identified, the cell viability in 3B-PEG IH was measured. Evaluation of gene expression in hydrogel was performed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. TMJOA rabbits were established by intra-articular injection of type II collagenase. Six weeks after composite systems being injected, gross morphological score, micro-CT, histological staining and grading were evaluated. The rusults showed that different types of 3B-PEG IH all reached a stable gel state at 37 °C and could support the three-dimensional growth of chondrocytes, but poly(lactide-co-caprolactone)-block-poly(ethyleneglycol)-block-poly(lactide-co-caprolactone) (PLCL-PEG-PLCL) hydrogel had a wider gelation temperature range and better hydrolytic stability for about 4 weeks. Its controlled release curve is closest to the zero-order release kinetics.In vitro, PLCL-PEG-PLCL/Nell-1 could promote the chondrogenic expression and reduce the inflammatory expression.In vivo, TMJOA rabbits were mainly characterized by the disorder of cartilage structure and the destruction of subchondral bone. However, PLCL-PEG-PLCL/Nell-1 could reverse the destruction of the subchondral trabecula, restore the fibrous and proliferative layers of the surface, and reduce the irregular hyperplasia of fibrocartilage layer. In conclusion, by comparing the properties of different 3B-PEG IH, 20 wt% PLCL-PEG-PLCL hydrogel was selected as the most appropriate material. PLCL-PEG-PLCL/Nell-1 composite could reverse osteochondral damage caused by TMJOA, Nfatc1-Runx3 signaling pathway may play a role in it. This study may provide a novel, minimally-invasive therapeutic strategy for the clinical treatment of TMJOA.
Author information:(1)Department of General Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University,Zhangjiakou,Hebei 075000,China.(2)Central Laboratory,the First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University,Zhangjiakou,Hebei 075000,China.(3)Graduate School of Hebei North University,Zhangjiakou,Hebei 075000,China.(4)College of Life Sciences,Northwest University,Xi'an 710000,China.
Aim: The exact epigenetic mechanisms that determine the balance of T helper (Th)1 and Th2 cells and autoimmune responses in multiple sclerosis (MS) remain unclear. We aim to clarify these. Methods: A combination of bioinformatics analysis and molecular evaluations was utilized to identify master hub genes. Results: A competitive endogenous RNA network containing six long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), 21 miRNAs and 86 mRNAs was provided through enrichment analysis and a protein-protein interaction network. NEAT1 and MALAT1 were found as differentially expressed lncRNAs using Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE21942). Quantitative real-time PCR results demonstrate dysregulation in the RUNX3 (a regulator of Th1/Th2 balance), GATA3 and TBX21, as well as miR-544a and miR-210-3p (which directly target RUNX3). ELISA also confirmed an imbalance in IFN-γ (Th1)/IL-4 (Th2) in MS patients. Conclusion: Our findings introduce novel biomarkers leading to Th1/Th2 imbalance in MS.
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological malignancy with high relapse/refractory rate. Genetic and epigenetic abnormalities are driving factors for leukemogenesis. RUNX1 and RUNX2 from the Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family played important roles in AML pathogenesis. However, the relationship between RUNX3 and AML remains unclear. Here, we found that RUNX3 was a super-enhancer-associated gene and highly expressed in AML cells. The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database showed high expression of RUNX3 correlated with poor prognosis of AML patients. We observed that Runx3 knockdown significantly inhibited leukemia progression by inducing DNA damage to enhance apoptosis in murine AML cells. By chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis, we discovered that RUNX3 in AML cells mainly bound more genes involved in DNA-damage repair and antiapoptosis pathways compared to that in normal bone marrow cells. Runx3 knockdown obviously inhibited the expression of these genes in AML cells. Overall, we identified RUNX3 as an oncogene overexpressed in AML cells, and Runx3 knockdown suppressed AML progression by inducing DNA damage and apoptosis.
Schizophrenia is a disorder that is characterized by delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech or behavior, and socio-occupational impairment. The duration of observation and variability in symptoms can make the accurate diagnosis difficult. Identification of biomarkers for schizophrenia (SCZ) can help in early diagnosis, ascertaining the diagnosis, and development of effective treatment strategies. Here we review peripheral blood-based gene expression studies for identification of gene expression biomarkers for SCZ. A literature search was carried out in PubMed and Web of Science databases for blood-based gene expression studies in SCZ. A list of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was compiled and analyzed for overlap with genetic markers, differences based on drug status of the participants, functional enrichment, and for effect of antipsychotics. This literature survey identified 61 gene expression studies. Seventeen out of these studies were based on expression microarrays. A comparative analysis of the DEGs (n = 227) from microarray studies revealed differences between drug-naive and drug-treated SCZ participants. We found that of the 227 DEGs, 11 genes (ACOT7, AGO2, DISC1, LDB1, RUNX3, SIGIRR, SLC18A1, NRG1, CHRNB2, PRKAB2, and ZNF74) also showed genetic and epigenetic changes associated with SCZ. Functional enrichment analysis of the DEGs revealed dysregulation of proline and 4-hydroxyproline metabolism. Also, arginine and proline metabolism was the most functionally enriched pathway for SCZ in our analysis. Follow-up studies identified effect of antipsychotic treatment on peripheral blood gene expression. Of the 27 genes compiled from the follow-up studies AKT1, DISC1, HP, and EIF2D had no effect on their expression status as a result of antipsychotic treatment. Despite the differences in the nature of the study, ethnicity of the population, and the gene expression analysis method used, we identified several coherent observations. An overlap, though limited, of genetic, epigenetic and gene expression changes supports interplay of genetic and environmental factors in SCZ. The studies validate the use of blood as a surrogate tissue for biomarker analysis. We conclude that well-designed cohort studies across diverse populations, use of high-throughput sequencing technology, and use of artificial intelligence (AI) based computational analysis will significantly improve our understanding and diagnostic capabilities for this complex disorder.
Author information:(1)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, First People's Hospital of Nanyang City, Nanyang, Henan 473200, China (Email: wzg8107@163.com).
Glioblastoma (GBM) is an extremely aggressive brain tumor awaiting novel, efficient, and minimally toxic treatment. Curcuminoids (CCM), polyphenols from Curcuma longa, and sodium butyrate (NaBu), a histone deacetylase inhibitor naturally occurring in the human body, await elucidation as potential anti-GBM agents. Thus, the aim of this study was to analyze CCM and NaBu both separately and as a combination treatment using three GBM cell lines. MTT was used for cytotoxicity evaluation, and the combination index was calculated for synergism prediction. Cell cycle, apoptosis, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation were analyzed using flow cytometry. DNA methylation was verified by MS-HRM and mRNA expression by qPCR. The permeability through the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and through the nasal cavity was evaluated using PAMPA model. The results of this study indicate that CCM and NaBu synergistically reduce the viability of GBM cells inducing apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. These effects are mediated via ROS generation and changes in gene expression, including upregulation of Wnt/β-catenin pathway antagonists, SFRP1, and RUNX3, and downregulation of UHRF1, the key epigenetic regulator. Moreover, NaBu ameliorated CCM permeability through the BBB and the nasal cavity. We conclude that CCM and NaBu are promising agents with anti-GBM properties.
OBJECTIVES: Runx3, a member of the Runx family of transcription factors, has been studied as a tumour suppressor and key player of organ development. In a previous study, we reported differentiation failure and excessive angiogenesis in the liver of Runx3 knock-out (KO) mice. Here, we examined a function of the Runx3 in liver, especially in iron metabolism.METHODS: We performed histological and immunohistological analyses of the Runx3 KO mouse liver. RNA-sequencing analyses were performed on primary hepatocytes isolated from Runx3 conditional KO (cKO) mice. The effect of Runx3 knock-down (KD) was also investigated using siRNA-mediated KD in functional human hepatocytes and human hepatocellular carcinoma cells.RESULT: We observed an iron-overloaded liver with decreased expression of hepcidin in Runx3 KO mice. Expression of BMP6, a regulator of hepcidin transcription, and activity of the BMP pathway were decreased in the liver tissue of Runx3 KO mice. Transcriptome analysis on primary hepatocytes isolated from Runx3 cKO mice also revealed that iron-induced increase in BMP6 was mediated by Runx3. Similar results were observed in Runx3 knock-down experiments using HepaRG cells and HepG2 cells. Finally, we showed that Runx3 enhanced the activity of the BMP6 promoter by responding to iron stimuli in the hepatocytes.CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we suggest that Runx3 plays important roles in iron metabolism of the liver through regulation of BMP signalling.
PURPOSE: This study aimed to compare the changes in the lacrimal functional unit in the following two models of neurogenic dry eye syndrome: sensory denervation of the cornea versus autonomic denervation of the lacrimal gland.METHODS: The neural network supports the lacrimal functional unit. It can be divided into afferent (sensory) and efferent (autonomic) pathways and is affected by severe diseases that compromise the lacrimal functional unit. Male Wistar, 8-week-old rats were divided into the following three groups: 1) control naïve (n=16 animals); 2) autonomic denervation: where rats were subjected to right lacrimal gland nerve ablation and evaluated after 1 and 2 months (1M and 2M) after the procedure (n=7 animals per subgroup, autonomic denervation 1M and autonomic denervation 2M, respectively); 3) sensory denervation induced by 0.2% benzalkonium chloride eye drops, twice a day for 7 days in the right eye (n=10 animals). The corneal sensitivity was measured using the eye wipe test with capsaicin (10 µM). The quantitative real-time PCR was performed to compare the mRNA expressions of proinflammatory cytokines, such as Il-1β, Il-6, Tnf, Mmp9, in the cornea, trigeminal ganglion, and lacrimal gland. In addition, the mRNA of the promitotic factors in the lacrimal gland, such as Bmp7, Runx1, Runx3, Fgf10, and Smad1, was compared.RESULTS: Sensory denervation induced corneal hyperalgesia (p=0.001). Sensory denervation and autonomic denervation increased the mRNA of proinflammatory cytokines in the cornea and lacrimal gland (p<0.05), but only sensory denervation increased the mRNA levels of Il-1β and Tnf in the trigeminal ganglion (p<0.05) compared with the control naïve.CONCLUSIONS: Autonomic denervation and sensory denervation models can have common features, such as inflammation of different parts of the lacrimal functional unit. However, hyperesthesia and inflammatory markers in the trigeminal ganglion because of sensory denervation and the expression of regenerative mediators in the lacrimal gland owing to autonomic denervation are the distinguishing features of these diseases that can be explored in future studies assessing dry eye syndrome secondary to neural damage of the lacrimal functional unit.
BACKGROUND: The incidence of colorectal cancer is high and on the rise. The genetic and protein expressions of RUNT-associated transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) in colorectal cancer (CRC) and adjacent normal tissues were detected to preliminarily explore their correlation and clinical significance.METHODS: CRC specimens excised during general surgery were selected for localization and quantitative analysis of protein and gene expression by SP (Streptavidin-peroxidase conjugated method) immunohistochemical staining, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot. Combined with the patients' data, the relationship between the expression of the two genes and tumor characteristics was analyzed. Log-rank test was used to analyze the correlation between the two proteins and survival prognosis of CRC patients. The expression of RUNX3 in RKO and HCT-116 was knocked down, and the relative expression of HER2 in the two cell lines was detected.RESULTS: Immunohistochemical, RT-qPCR and Western blot results showed that the positive expression rate of RUNX3 in CRC was lower than in the normal group, and HER2 in CRC was higher than in the normal group. The positive expression of the two proteins correlated with the pT and pN stages of CRC. A significant negative correlation between the expression of the two genes in CRC. Follow-up results showed that the number of Runx3-positive patients was higher than negative ones, while HER2 positive were fewer than negative ones. In vitro experiments showed that RUNX3 protein and gene expression decreased, HER2 protein and gene expression increased in RUNX3 knockdown RKO and HCT-116 cells, respectively (P<0.05).CONCLUSIONS: The expression of RUNX3 and HER2 in CRC is related to the occurrence and development of CRC, and the two genes have a negative regulating effect.
Runt-related transcription factors (RUNXs) can serve as both transcription activators and repressors during biological development, including immune cell maturation. RUNX factors have both tumor-promoting and tumor-suppressive roles in carcinogenesis. Immune cell infiltration and the tumor immune microenvironment have been found to be key regulators in breast cancer progression, treatment response, and patient outcome. However, the relationship between the RUNX family and immune cell infiltration in breast cancer remains unclear. We performed a comprehensive analysis to reveal the role of RUNX factors in breast cancer. Analysis of patient data in the Oncomine database showed that the transcriptional levels of RUNX proteins in breast cancer were elevated. Kaplan-Meier plotter (KM plotter) analysis showed that breast cancer patients with higher expression of RUNX proteins had better survival outcomes. Through analysis of the UALCAN database, we found that the transcriptional levels of RUNX factors were significantly correlated with some breast cancer patient characteristics. cBio Cancer Genomics Portal (cBioPortal) analysis showed the proportions of different RUNX genomic alterations in various subclasses of breast cancer. We also performed gene ontology (GO) and pathway analyses for the significantly differentially expressed genes that were correlated with RUNX factors in breast cancer. TIMER database analysis showed that immune cell infiltration in breast cancer could be affected by the transcriptional level, mutation, and gene copy number of RUNX proteins. Using the Gene Set Cancer Analysis (GSCA) database, we analyzed the effects of RUNX gene methylation on the level of immune cell infiltration in breast cancer. We found that the methylation level changes of RUNX2 and RUNX3 had opposite effects on immune cell infiltration in breast cancer. We also analyzed the relationship between the methylation level of RUNX genes and the TGF-β signaling pathway using the TISIDB database. The results showed that the methylation levels of RUNX1 and RUNX3 were correlated with the expression of TGF-β1. In summary, our analysis found that the RUNX family members can influence the infiltration of various immune cells in breast cancer depending on their expression level, mutation, gene copy number, and methylation. The RUNX family is an important regulator of immune cell infiltration in breast cancer and may serve as a potential prognostic biomarker.
BACKGROUND: The most common B-cell cancers, chronic lymphocytic leukemia/lymphoma (CLL), follicular and diffuse large B-cell (FL, DLBCL) lymphomas, have distinct clinical courses, yet overlapping "cell-of-origin". Dynamic changes to the epigenome are essential regulators of B-cell differentiation. Therefore, we reasoned that these distinct cancers may be driven by shared mechanisms of disruption in transcriptional circuitry.METHODS: We compared purified malignant B-cells from 52 patients with normal B-cell subsets (germinal center centrocytes and centroblasts, naïve and memory B-cells) from 36 donor tonsils using >325 high-resolution molecular profiling assays for histone modifications, open chromatin (ChIP-, FAIRE-seq), transcriptome (RNA-seq), transcription factor (TF) binding, and genome copy number (microarrays).FINDINGS: From the resulting data, we identified gains in active chromatin in enhancers/super-enhancers that likely promote unchecked B-cell receptor signaling, including one we validated near the immunoglobulin superfamily receptors FCMR and PIGR. More striking and pervasive was the profound loss of key B-cell identity TFs, tumor suppressors and their super-enhancers, including EBF1, OCT2(POU2F2), and RUNX3. Using a novel approach to identify transcriptional feedback, we showed that these core transcriptional circuitries are self-regulating. Their selective gain and loss form a complex, iterative, and interactive process that likely curbs B-cell maturation and spurs proliferation.INTERPRETATION: Our study is the first to map the transcriptional circuitry of the most common blood cancers. We demonstrate that a critical subset of B-cell TFs and their cognate enhancers form self-regulatory transcriptional feedback loops whose disruption is a shared mechanism underlying these diverse subtypes of B-cell lymphoma.FUNDING: National Institute of Health, Siteman Cancer Center, Barnes-Jewish Hospital Foundation, Doris Duke Foundation.
BACKGROUND: Osteogenic differentiation of human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) is essential for bone formation, and its dysfunction is reported to be associated with osteoporosis (OP). Recent researches have determined that lncRNA PART1 participates in the pathogenesis of multiple diseases. However, its role in modulating osteogenic differentiation of hBMSCs is unclear.METHODS: PART1, miR-185-5p, and RUNX3 levels were assessed via RT-qPCR. The protein levels of OCN, OSN, and COL1A1 were measured by western blotting. The osteoblastic phenotype was evaluated via ALP activity and ARS staining. The relationship between miR-185-5p and PART1 or RUNX3 was validated by luciferase reporter, RIP assays.RESULTS: PART1 and RUNX3 expression were enhanced during hBMSC osteogenic differentiation. PART1 deletion decreased OCN, OSN, and COL1A1 levels and weakened ALP activity, but promoted the apoptosis of hBMSCs. Moreover, PART1 served as a ceRNA to influence the RUNX3 level via targeting miR-185-5p. In addition, RUNX3 was verified to activate the transcription of PART1 in hBMSCs. Finally, rescue assays indicated that suppression of miR-185-5p or addition of RUNX3 partially abolished the effects of PART1 knockdown on the levels of OCN, OSX, and COL1A1 levels, ALP activity, and apoptosis.CONCLUSION: Our study elaborated that PART1/miR-185-5p/RUNX3 feedback contributed to osteogenic differentiation and inhibited the hBMSCs apoptosis, suggesting that PART1 might be a novel target for OP treatment.
Runx proteins (also known as Runt-domain transcription factors) have been studied for a long time as key regulators of cellular differentiation. RUNX2 has been described as essential for osteogenesis, whereas RUNX1 and RUNX3 are known to control blood cell development during different stages of cell lineage specification. However, recent studies show evidence of complex relationships between RUNX proteins, chromatin-modifying machinery, the cytoskeleton and different transcription factors in various non-embryonic contexts, including mature T cell homeostasis, inflammation and cancer. In this review, we discuss the diversity of Runx functions in mature T helper cells, such as production of cytokines and chemokines by different CD4 T cell populations; apoptosis; and immunologic memory acquisition. We then briefly cover recent findings about the contribution of RUNX1, RUNX2 and RUNX3 to various immunologic diseases. Finally, we discuss areas that require further study to better understand the role that Runx proteins play in inflammation and immunity.
Bufo gargarizans is one kind of economic animals with higher medicinal value in China. In this study, B. gargarizans (Bufo gargarizans) tadpoles were reared at three different water temperature (15, 22 and 29 °C) from Gosner stages 28-46. We investigated the effects of temperature on growth, development, survival, metamorphic duration, size and skeletal ossification at Gosner stage 40, 42, and 46, as well as thyroid tissue reached metamorphic climax (Gs42). Besides, we examined the transcription levels of endochondral ossification-related genes in hind limb at metamorphic climax (Gs42). Our results showed that the growth and development of tadpoles conform to the temperature-size rule (TSR). While warm temperature resulted in the decrease in body size and hind limb length, and shorten larval period, cold temperature led to increase in body size and hind limb length but prolonged larval period. Histological examinations revealed that warm and cold temperatures caused damage to thyroid tissue. Also, warm and cold temperatures inhibited the degree of ossification with the double staining methodology. Additionally, the real-time PCR results suggested that warm and cold temperatures significantly up-regulated Runx2, VEGF and VEGFR mRNA levels, and down-regulated TRβ, MMP9, MMP13 and Runx3 mRNA levels. The up-regulation of Dio2 level and down-regulation of Dio3 level were observed in warm temperature. TRα mRNA level was significantly increased in warm temperature, but decreased in cold temperature. Collectively, these observations demonstrated that warm and cold temperatures affected endochondral ossification in B. gargarizans tadpoles, which might influence their capacity to terrestrial locomotion.
MHC class I (MHC-I)-restricted CD4+ T cells have long been discovered in the natural repertoire of healthy humans as well as patients with autoimmune diseases or cancer, but the exact origin of these cells remains to be fully characterized. In mouse models, mature peripheral CD8+ T cells have the potential to convert to CD4+ T cells in the mesenteric lymph nodes. This conversion can produce a unique population of MHC-I-restricted CD4+ T cells including Foxp3+ regulatory T cells termed MHC-I-restricted CD4+Foxp3+ T (CI-Treg) cells. In this study we examined the cellular and molecular elements that promote CD8-to-CD4 lineage conversion and the development of CI-Treg cells in mice. Using adoptive transfer and bone marrow chimera experiments, we found that the differentiation of CI-Treg cells was driven by lymph node stromal cell (LNSC)-intrinsic MHC-II expression as opposed to transcytosis of MHC-II from bone marrow-derived APCs. The lineage conversion was accompanied by Runx3 versus ThPOK transcriptional switch. This finding of a new role for LNSCs in vivo led us to develop an efficient tissue culture method using LNSCs to generate and expand CI-Treg cells in vitro. CI-Treg cells expanded in vitro with LNSCs effectively suppressed inflammatory tissue damage caused by pathogenic CD4+ T cells in mouse models of colitis. This study identified a novel role of MHC-II expressed by LNSCs in immune regulation and the potential utilization of LNSCs to generate novel subsets of immune regulatory cells for therapeutic applications.
BACKGROUND: As a tumor suppressor or oncogenic gene, abnormal expression of RUNX family transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported in various cancers.INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to investigate the role of RUNX3 in melanoma.METHODS: The expression level of RUNX3 in melanoma tissues was analyzed by immunohistochemistry and the Oncomine database. Based on microarray datasets GSE3189 and GSE7553, differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in melanoma samples were screened, followed by functional enrichment analysis. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) was performed for RUNX3. DEGs that co-expressed with RUNX3 were analyzed, and the transcription factors (TFs) of RUNX3 and its co-expressed genes were predicted. The protein-protein interactions (PPIs) for RUNX3 were analyzed utilizing the GeneMANIA database. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) that could target RUNX3 expression, were predicted.RESULTS: RUNX3 expression was significantly up-regulated in melanoma tissues. GSEA showed that RUNX3 expression was positively correlated with melanogenesis and melanoma pathways. Eleven DEGs showed significant co-expression with RUNX3 in melanoma, for example, TLE4 was negatively co-expressed with RUNX3. RUNX3 was identified as a TF that regulated the expression of both itself and its co-expressed genes. PPI analysis showed that 20 protein-encoding genes interacted with RUNX3, among which 9 genes were differentially expressed in melanoma, such as CBFB and SMAD3. These genes were significantly enriched in transcriptional regulation by RUNX3, RUNX3 regulates BCL2L11 (BIM) transcription, regulation of I-kappaB kinase/NFkappaB signaling, and signaling by NOTCH. A total of 31 miRNAs could target RUNX3, such as miR-326, miR-330-5p, and miR-373-3p.CONCLUSION: RUNX3 expression was up-regulated in melanoma and was implicated in the development of melanoma.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a complex disease with a late onset and is characterized by the progressive loss of muscular and respiratory functions. Although recent studies have partially elucidated ALS's mechanisms, many questions remain such as what the most important molecular pathways involved in ALS are and why there is such a large difference in ALS onset among different populations. In this study, we addressed this issue with a bioinformatics approach, using the United Kingdom Biobank (UKBB) and the European 1000 Genomes Project (1KG) in order to analyze the most ALS-representative single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that differ for minor allele frequency (MAF) between the United Kingdom population and some European populations including Finnish in Finland, Iberian population in Spain, and Tuscans in Italy. We found 84 SNPs associated with 46 genes that are involved in different pathways including: "Ca2+ activated K+ channels", "cGMP effects", "Nitric oxide stimulates guanylate cyclase", "Proton/oligopeptide cotransporters", and "Signaling by MAPK mutants". In addition, we revealed that 83% of the 84 SNPs can alter transcription factor-motives binding sites of 224 genes implicated in "Regulation of beta-cell development", "Transcription-al regulation by RUNX3", "Transcriptional regulation of pluripotent stem cells", and "FOXO-mediated transcription of cell death genes". In conclusion, the genes and pathways analyzed could explain the cause of the difference of ALS onset.
Neurotrophins and their receptors are relevant factors in controlling neuroblastoma growth and progression. The histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor valproic acid (VPA) has been shown to downregulate TrkB and upregulate the p75NTR/sortilin receptor complex. In the present study, we investigated the VPA effect on the expression of the neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) receptor TrkC, a favorable prognostic marker of neuroblastoma. We found that VPA induced the expression of both full-length and truncated (TrkC-T1) isoforms of TrkC in human neuroblastoma cell lines without (SH-SY5Y) and with (Kelly, BE(2)-C and IMR 32) MYCN amplification. VPA enhanced cell surface expression of the receptor and increased Akt and ERK1/2 activation by NT-3. The HDAC inhibitors entinostat, romidepsin and vorinostat also increased TrkC in SH-SY5Y, Kelly and BE(2)-C but not IMR 32 cells. TrkC upregulation by VPA involved induction of RUNX3, stimulation of ERK1/2 and JNK, and ERK1/2-mediated Egr1 expression. In SH-SY5Y cell monolayers and spheroids the exposure to NT-3 enhanced the apoptotic cascade triggered by VPA. Gene silencing of both TrkC-T1 and p75NTR prevented the NT-3 proapoptotic effect. Moreover, NT-3 enhanced p75NTR/TrkC-T1 co-immunoprecipitation. The results indicate that VPA upregulates TrkC by activating epigenetic mechanisms and signaling pathways, and sensitizes neuroblastoma cells to NT-3-induced apoptosis.
Human Runt-associated transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) plays an important role in the development and progression of endometrial cancer (EC). However, the clinical and pathological significance of RUNX3 in EC needs to be further studied. In order to clarify the clinical and pathological significance of RUNX3, a systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted in EC patients. Keywords RUNX3, endometrial cancer, and uterine cancer were searched in Cochrane Library, Web of Knowledge, PubMed, CBM, MEDLINE, and Chinese CNKI database for data up to Dec 31, 2018. References, abstracts, and meeting proceedings were manually searched in supplementary. Outcomes were various clinical and pathological features. The two reviewers performed the literature searching, data extracting, and method assessing independently. Meta-analysis was performed by RevMan5.3.0. A total of 563 EC patients were enrolled from eight studies. Meta-analysis results showed that the expression of RUNX3 has significant differences in these comparisons: lymph node (LN) metastasis vs. non-LN metastasis (P = 0.26), EC tissues vs. normal tissues (P < 0.00001), clinical stages I/II vs. II/IV (P < 0.00001), muscular infiltration < 1/2 vs. muscular infiltration ≥ 1/2 (P < 0.00001), and G1 vs. G2/G3 (P < 0.00001). The decreasing expression of RUNX3 is associated with poor TNM stage and muscular infiltration. It is indicated that RUNX3 was involved in the suppression effect of EC. However, further multicenter randomized controlled trials are needed considering the small sample size of the included trials.
INTRODUCTION: We recently described the sulfur microbial diet, a pattern of intake associated with increased gut sulfur-metabolizing bacteria and incidence of distal colorectal cancer (CRC). We assessed whether this risk differed by CRC molecular subtypes or presence of intratumoral microbes involved in CRC pathogenesis (Fusobacterium nucleatum and Bifidobacterium spp.).METHODS: We performed Cox proportional hazards modeling to examine the association between the sulfur microbial diet and incidence of overall and distal CRC by molecular and microbial subtype in the Health Professionals Follow-Up Study (1986-2012).RESULTS: We documented 1,264 incident CRC cases among 48,246 men, approximately 40% of whom had available tissue data. After accounting for multiple hypothesis testing, the relationship between the sulfur microbial diet and CRC incidence did not differ by subtype. However, there was a suggestion of an association by prostaglandin synthase 2 (PTGS2) status with a multivariable adjusted hazard ratio for highest vs lowest tertile of sulfur microbial diet scores of 1.31 (95% confidence interval: 0.99-1.74, Ptrend = 0.07, Pheterogeneity = 0.04) for PTGS2-high CRC. The association of the sulfur microbial diet with distal CRC seemed to differ by the presence of intratumoral Bifidobacterium spp. with an adjusted hazard ratio for highest vs lowest tertile of sulfur microbial diet scores of 1.65 (95% confidence interval: 1.14-2.39, Ptrend = 0.01, Pheterogeneity = 0.03) for Bifidobacterium-negative distal CRC. We observed no apparent heterogeneity by other tested molecular markers.DISCUSSION: Greater long-term adherence to the sulfur microbial diet could be associated with PTGS2-high and Bifidobacterium-negative distal CRC in men. Additional studies are needed to further characterize the role of gut microbial sulfur metabolism and CRC.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is often characterized by mutations and aberrant DNA methylation within the promoters of tumor suppressor genes and proto-oncogenes. The most frequent somatic mutations occur within KRAS and BRAF genes. Mutations of the KRAS gene have been detected in approximately 40% of patients, while mutations in BRAF have been detected less frequently at a rate of 10%. In this study, the DNA methylation levels of 22 candidate genes were evaluated in three types of tissue: mucosal tumoral tissue from 18 CRC patients, normal adjacent tissues from 10 CRC patients who underwent surgical resection, and tissue from a control group of six individuals with normal colonoscopies. A differential methylation profile of nine genes (RUNX3, SFRP1, WIF1, PCDH10, DKK2, DKK3, TMEFF2, OPCML, and SFRP2) presenting high methylation levels in tumoral compared to normal tissues was identified. KRAS mutations (codons 12 or 13) were detected in eight CRC cases, and BRAF mutations (codon 600) in four cases. One of the CRC patients presented concomitant mutations in KRAS codon 12 and BRAF, whereas seven patients did not present these mutations (WT). When comparing the methylation profile according to mutation status, we found that six genes (SFRP2, DKK2, PCDH10, TMEFF2, SFRP1, HS3ST2) showed a methylation level higher in BRAF positive cases than BRAF negative cases. The molecular sub-classification of CRC according to mutations and epigenetic modifications may help to identify epigenetic biomarkers useful in designing personalized strategies to improve patient outcomes.
Perturbation of epigenetic regulation is a well-established mechanism for cancer but its role for lead (Pb)-associated toxicity has not been adequately investigated. We aimed to investigate whether occupational Pb exposure is associated with micronuclei (MN) frequency and to further explored the mediating roles of epigenetic gene regulation. All the Pb-exposed workers recruited from a Chinese acid battery factory, blood lead levels (BLLs) and MN frequency in lymphocytes were measured. In addition, methylation levels of seven genes (Line-1, RASSF1A, RUNX3, p16, CYP26C1, hMLH1, p15) were examined among 230 workers. Robust Poisson regression model was used to investigate the association between BLLs and MN frequency. Mediation analysis was used to explore the mediating role of specific DNA methylation. Among total 677 participants, 71% were male, median BLLs was 229.1 μg/L (P25  = 155.5, P75  = 319.3; ranged from 8.9 to 647.7 μg/L), mean MN frequency was 2.5‰ (SD = 1.8‰; ranged from 0 to 9‰). Results from base model, adjusted for age, sex, and body mass index, showed that MN frequency would increase 1.38 (95%confidential interval: 1.34, 1.43) per 100 μg/L increment in BLLs. Using categorized exposure variable analyses, a BLLs dose-response increase in MN frequency was observed: 2.74 (2.13, 3.51), 3.43 (2.73, 4.32), 4.41 (3.89, 5.01) to 6.86 (6.02, 7.81). Mediation analysis indicated that Line-1 methylation significantly mediated 3.6% of the association of BLLs with MN frequency. Occupational Pb exposure induces MN frequency in a dose-response relationship. Part of this association was mediated by Line-1 promotor methylation.
Cytotoxic CD4 T lymphocytes (CD4-CTL) are important in antiviral immunity. For example, we have previously shown that in mice, CD4-CTL are important to control ectromelia virus (ECTV) infection. How viral infections induce CD4-CTL responses remains incompletely understood. We demonstrate here that not only ECTV but also vaccinia virus and lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus induce CD4-CTL, though the response to ECTV is stronger. Using ECTV, we also demonstrate that in contrast to CD8-CTL, CD4-CTL differentiation requires constant virus replication and ceases once the virus is controlled. We also show that major histocompatibility complex class II molecules on CD11c+ cells are required for CD4-CTL differentiation and for mousepox resistance. Transcriptional analysis indicated that antiviral CD4-CTL and noncytolytic T helper 1 (Th1) CD4 T cells have similar transcriptional profiles, suggesting that CD4-CTL are terminally differentiated classical Th1 cells. Interestingly, CD4-CTL and classical Th1 cells expressed similar mRNA levels of the transcription factors ThPOK and GATA-3, necessary for CD4 T cell linage commitment, and Runx3, required for CD8 T cell development and effector function. However, at the protein level, CD4-CTL had higher levels of the three transcription factors, suggesting that further posttranscriptional regulation is required for CD4-CTL differentiation. Finally, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of Runx3 in CD4 T cells inhibited CD4-CTL but not classical Th1 cell differentiation in response to ECTV infection. These results further our understanding of the mechanisms of CD4-CTL differentiation during viral infection and the role of posttranscriptionally regulated Runx3 in this process. IMPORTANCE While it is well established that cytotoxic CD4 T cells (CD4-CTLs) directly contribute to viral clearance, it remains unclear how CD4-CTL are induced. We now show that CD4-CTLs require sustained antigen presentation and are induced by CD11c-expressing antigen-presenting cells. Moreover, we show that CD4-CTLs are derived from the terminal differentiation of classical T helper 1 (Th1) subset of CD4 cells. Compared to Th1 cells, CD4-CTLs upregulate protein levels of the transcription factors ThPOK, Runx3, and GATA-3 posttranscriptionally. Deletion of Runx3 in differentiated CD4 T cells prevents induction of CD4-CTLs but not classical Th1 cells. These results advance our knowledge of how CD4-CTLs are induced during viral infection.
The placenta can be affected by environmental factors, such as exposure to cigarette smoke. This exposure in the fetal context is considered a risk factor for the development of short-term postnatal diseases, such as asthma. Asthma is an inflammatory disease characterized by predominant acquisition of CD4 T lymphocytes (TLs) of the Th2 type. Transcription factors such as GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3) and STAT6 actively participate in the differentiation of virgin TLs towards the Th2 profile, while transcription factors such as STAT1, T-Box transcription factor 21 (T-BET), RUNX1 and RUNX3 participate in their differentiation towards the Th1 profile. The objective of the current study was to evaluate the impact of exposure to cigarette smoke on the gene expression of STAT1, T-BET, GATA3, IL-4, RUNX1 and RUNX3 during the gestation period, and to determine whether the expression levels of these genes are associated with changes in global methylation. STAT1, GATA3, RUNX1 and RUNX3 protein and mRNA expression levels in the placental tissue of women smokers and non-smoking women were determined via immunohistochemistry and quantitative PCR (qPCR) respectively. Additionally, T-BET and IL-4 mRNA expression levels were determined by qPCR. On the other hand, global methylation was determined via ELISA. In the present study, significant increases were observed in RUNX1 transcription factor expression in placentas from women smokers when compared with placentas of non-smoking women. Similarly, significant increases in the expression of GATA3, IL-4 and RUNX3 mRNA were observed. The changes in gene expression were not associated with changes in the global methylation levels. Finally, a higher frequency of low-birth-weight infants were identified in cases of exposure to cigarette smoke during pregnancy when compared with infants not exposed to cigarette smoke during pregnancy. Thus, the data of the present study contributed to the understanding of the genetic and clinical impacts of exposure to cigarette smoke during pregnancy and its importance in maternal and fetal health.
P21 Activated Kinase 1 (PAK1) is an oncogenic serine/threonine kinase known to play a significant role in the regulation of cytoskeleton and cell morphology. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was initially known for its tumor suppressor function, but recent studies have reported the oncogenic role of RUNX3 in various cancers. Previous findings from our laboratory provided evidence that Threonine 209 phosphorylation of RUNX3 acts as a molecular switch in dictating the tissue-specific dualistic functions of RUNX3 for the first time. Based on these proofs and to explore the translational significance of these findings, we designed a small peptide (RMR) from the protein sequence of RUNX3 flanking the Threonine 209 phosphorylation site. The selection of this specific peptide from multiple possible peptides was based on their binding energies, hydrogen bonding, docking efficiency with the active site of PAK1 and their ability to displace PAK1-RUNX3 interaction in our prediction models. We found that this peptide is stable both in in vitro and in vivo conditions, not toxic to normal cells and inhibits the Threonine 209 phosphorylation in RUNX3 by PAK1. We also tested the efficacy of this peptide to block the RUNX3 Threonine 209 phosphorylation mediated tumorigenic functions in in vitro cell culture models, patient-derived explant (PDE) models and in in vivo tumor xenograft models. These results proved that this peptide has the potential to be developed as an efficient therapeutic molecule for targeting RUNX3 Threonine 209 phosphorylation-dependent tumor phenotypes.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatoblastoma (HB) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) both exhibit notable cancer stem cell (CSC) features. Moreover, the development of both diseases is closely associated with the presence of CSCs. We investigated the role of brain-expressed X-linked protein 1 (BEX1) in regulating the CSC properties of HB and a subtype of HCC with high CSC features (CSC-HCC).METHODS: Stemness scores were analyzed in 5 murine HCC models. A subpopulation of BEX1-positive cells and BEX1-negative cells were sorted from HCC cell lines, and subjected to transcriptome analysis. The expression and function of BEX1 was examined via western blotting, sphere formation assays, and xenograft tumor models.RESULTS: We identified BEX1 as a novel CSC marker that was required for the self-renewal of liver CSCs. Furthermore, zebularine, a potent DNMT1 inhibitor, can induce the reactivation of BEX1 by removing epigenetic inhibition. Notably, BEX1 was highly expressed in patients with HB and CSC-HCC, but not in patients with non-CSC HCC. Moreover, DNMT1-mediated methylation of the BEX1 promoter resulted in differential BEX1 expression patterns in patients with HB, CSC-HCC, and non-CSC-HCC. Mechanistically, BEX1 interacted with RUNX3 to block its inhibition of β-catenin transcription, which led to the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, and stemness maintenance in both HB and CSC-HCC. In contrast, downregulated BEX1 expression released RUNX3 and inhibited the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in non-CSC-HCC.CONCLUSION: BEX1, under the regulation of DNMT1, is necessary for the self-renewal and maintenance of liver CSCs through activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, rendering BEX1 a potentially valuable therapeutic target in both HB and CSC-HCC.LAY SUMMARY: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) contribute to a high rate of cancer recurrence, as well as resistance to conventional therapies. However, the regulatory mechanisms underlying their self-renewal remains elusive. Herein, we have reported that BEX1 plays a key role in regulating CSC properties in different types of liver cancer. Targeting BEX1-mediated Wnt/β-catenin signaling may help to address the high rate of recurrence, and heterogeneity of liver cancer.
Integrin CD103 mediates the adhesion and tissue retention of T cells by binding to E-cadherin which is abundant on epithelial cells. Notably, CD103 is highly expressed on CD8 T cells but conspicuously absent on most CD4 T cells. The mechanism controlling such lineage-specific expression of CD103 remains unclear. Using a series of genetically engineered mouse models, here, we demonstrate that the regulatory mechanism of CD103 expression is distinct between CD4 and CD8 T cells, and that the transcription factor Runx3 plays an important but not an essential role in this process. We further found that the availability of integrin β7 which heterodimerizes with CD103 was necessary but also constrained the surface expression of CD103. Notably, the forced surface expression of CD103 did not significantly alter the thymic development of conventional T cells but severely impaired the generation of MHC-II-restricted TCR transgenic T cells, revealing previously unappreciated aspects of CD103 in the selection and maturation of CD4 T cells. Unlike its effect on CD4 T cell development, however, CD103 overexpression did not significantly affect CD4 T cells in peripheral tissues. Moreover, the frequency and number of CD4 T cells in the small intestine epithelium did not increase even though E-cadherin is highly expressed in this tissue. Collectively, these results suggest that most mature CD4 T cells are refractory to the effects of CD103 expression, and that they presumably utilize CD103-independent pathways to control their tissue retention and residency.
Glycans attached to immunoglobulin G (IgG) directly affect this antibody effector functions and regulate inflammation at several levels. The composition of IgG glycome changes significantly with age. In women, the most notable change coincides with the perimenopausal period. Aiming to investigate the effect of estrogen on IgG glycosylation, we analysed IgG and total serum glycomes in 36 healthy premenopausal women enrolled in a randomized controlled trial of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue (GnRHAG) leuprolide acetate to lower gonadal steroids to postmenopausal levels and then randomized to transdermal placebo or estradiol (E2) patch. The suppression of gonadal hormones induced significant changes in the IgG glycome, while E2 supplementation was sufficient to prevent changes. The observed glycan changes suggest that depletion of E2 primarily affects B cell glycosylation, while liver glycosylation stays mostly unchanged. To determine whether previously identified IgG GWAS hits RUNX1, RUNX3, SPINK4, and ELL2 are involved in downstream signaling mechanisms, linking E2 with IgG glycosylation, we used the FreeStyle 293-F transient system expressing IgG antibodies with stably integrated CRISPR/dCas9 expression cassettes for gene up- and downregulation. RUNX3 and SPINK4 upregulation using dCas9-VPR resulted in a decreased IgG galactosylation and, in the case of RUNX3, a concomitant increase in IgG agalactosylation.
BACKGROUND: Many studies have reported that the inflammatory immune response related to TLR9 signaling activation participates in tumor development and affects the treatment outcome. RUNX3 functions as a tumor suppressor by regulating DNA methylation. RUNX3 protein plays an important role in TGF-β signaling pathway that is involved in tumor growth inhibition and apoptosis. At present, radiotherapy is still an important treatment in lung cancer, which induces immune response and affects the therapeutic outcome. The role of TLR9 signaling activation and RUNX3 in this process is not clear.METHODS: In this study, we investigated the expression of TLR9 in tumor and RUNX3 in surrounding tissues by immunohistochemical methods and analyzed the relationship on postoperative survival in lung cancer.RESULTS: We found that the high expression of TLR9 was the risk factor in postoperative survival of lung cancer with no difference in lifetime. The high expression of RUNX3 in lung cancer with TLR9 signaling activation was in favor of progression-free survival and overall survival in postoperative radiotherapy. It suggested that RUNX3 played an important role in lung cancer radiotherapy. In order to determine the effect of RUNX3 in lung cancer radiation with TLR9 signaling activation, we introduced 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) and exposed lung cancer A459 cells repeatedly. The high expression of RUNX3 especially RUNX3-B in cells treated with 5-Aza-CdR was observed. We examined that 5-Aza-CdR induced more cell blocking in G2/M phase in combining irradiation.CONCLUSION: The result implied that it was feasible to improve radiosensitivity of lung cancer with TLR9 signaling activation by increasing RUNX3 expression, and 5-Aza-CdR was an option in this process.
OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a complex autoimmune disease, and various immune cells are involved in the initiation, progression, and regulation of SLE. Our goal was to reveal the chromatin accessibility landscape of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in SLE patients at single-cell resolution and identify the transcription factors (TFs) that may drive abnormal immune responses.METHODS: The assay for transposase accessible chromatin in single-cell sequencing (scATAC-seq) method was applied to map the landscape of active regulatory DNA in immune cells from SLE patients at single-cell resolution, followed by clustering, peak annotation and motif analysis of PBMCs in SLE.RESULTS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were robustly clustered based on their types without using antibodies. We identified twenty patterns of TF activation that drive abnormal immune responses in SLE patients. Then, we observed ten genes that were highly associated with SLE pathogenesis by altering T cell activity. Finally, we found 12 key TFs regulating the above six genes (CD83, ELF4, ITPKB, RAB27A, RUNX3, and ZMIZ1) that may be related to SLE disease pathogenesis and were significantly enriched in SLE patients (p <0.05, FC >2). With qPCR experiments on CD83, ELF4, RUNX3, and ZMIZ1 in B cells, we observed a significant difference in the expression of genes (ELF4, RUNX3, and ZMIZ1), which were regulated by seven TFs (EWSR1-FLI1, MAF, MAFA, NFIB, NR2C2 (var. 2), TBX4, and TBX5). Meanwhile, the seven TFs showed highly accessible binding sites in SLE patients.CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm the importance of using single-cell sequencing to uncover the real features of immune cells in SLE patients, reveal key TFs in SLE-PBMCs, and provide foundational insights relevant for epigenetic therapy.
BACKGROUND: Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1) is a common oncogene in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which is regulated by microRNAs (miRNAs) and transcription factors. This research aims to explore the function of YBX1, miR-148a-3p and Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) in NSCLC development, and analyze their interactions.METHODS: YBX1, miR-148a-3p and Runx3 levels were detected using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction(RT-PCR), Western blotting or immunohistochemical staining. The functions of YBX1, miR-148a-3p and Runx3 were assessed by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT), colony formation, wound healing, transwell, flow cytometry, xenograft model and Western blotting analyses. The binding correlation was validated through dual-luciferase reporter analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP).RESULTS: YBX1 expression was upregulated, and miR-148a-3p and Runx3 levels were reduced in NSCLC samples and cell lines. YBX1 silence restrained NSCLC cell proliferation, migration, invasion and tumor growth, and enhanced apoptosis. YBX1 was targeted via miR-148a-3p. MiR-148a-3p knockdown promoted cell proliferation, migration, invasion and tumor growth, and repressed apoptosis, and these effects were abolished by YBX1 silence. Runx3 upregulation restrained cell proliferation, migration, invasion and tumor growth, and facilitated apoptosis. Runx3 bound with miR-148a-3p promotor to regulate miR-148a-3p expression. Runx3 silence modulated YBX1 expression though miR-148a-3p to promote NSCLC progression by increasing Cyclin D1, Cyclin B1, Slug-1, MMP-2 and MMP-9 levels.CONCLUSION: Runx3-miR-148a-3p axis targeted YBX1 to modulate NSCLC progression.
3-Hydroxy-3-methyl glutaryl-coenzyme A reductase (Hmgcr) encodes the rate-limiting enzyme in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. The regulation of Hmgcr in rat models of genetic hypertension (viz. Spontaneously Hypertensive Rat [SHR] and its normotensive control Wistar/Kyoto [WKY] strain) is unclear. Interestingly, Hmgcr transcript and protein levels are diminished in liver tissues of SHR as compared to WKY. This observation is consistent with the diminished plasma cholesterol level in SHR animals. However, the molecular basis of these apparently counter-intuitive findings remains completely unknown. Sequencing of the Hmgcr promoter in SHR and WKY strains reveals three variations: A-405G, C-62T and a 11 bp insertion (-398_-388insTGCGGTCCTCC) in SHR. Among these variations, A-405G occurs at an evolutionarily-conserved site among many mammals. Moreover, SHR-Hmgcr promoter displays lower activity than WKY-Hmgcr promoter in various cell lines. Transient transfections of Hmgcr-promoter mutants and in silico analysis suggest altered binding of Runx3 and Srebf1 across A-405G site. On the other hand, C-62T and -398_-388insTGCGGTCCTCC variations do not appear to contribute to the reduced Hmgcr promoter activity in SHR as compared to WKY. Indeed, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays confirm differential binding of Runx3 and Srebf1 to Hmgcr promoter leading to reduced expression of Hmgcr in SHR as compared to WKY under basal as well as cholesterol-modulated conditions. Taken together, this study provides, for the first time, molecular basis for diminished Hmgcr expression in SHR animals, which may account for the reduced circulating cholesterol level in this widely-studied model for cardiovascular diseases.
Chronic cerebral ischaemia (CCI) is a common pathological disorder, which is associated with various diseases, such as cerebral arteriosclerosis and vascular dementia, resulting in neurological dysfunction. As a type of non-coding RNA, circular RNA is involved in regulating the occurrence and development of diseases, such as ischaemic brain injury. Here, we found that HT22 cells and hippocampus treated with CCI had low expression of circ_0000296, Runx3, Sirt1, but high expression of miR-194-5p. Overexpression of circ_0000296, Runx3, Sirt1, and silenced miR-194-5p significantly inhibited neuronal apoptosis induced by CCI. This study demonstrated that circ_0000296 specifically bound to miR-194-5p; miR-194-5p bound to the 3'UTR region of Runx3 mRNA; Runx3 directly bound to the promoter region of Sirt1, enhancing its transcriptional activity. Overexpression of circ_0000296 by miR-194-5p reduced the negative regulatory effect of miR-194-5p on Runx3, promoted the transcriptional effect of Runx3 on Sirt1, and inhibited neuronal apoptosis induced by CCI. mmu_circ_0000296 plays an important role in regulating neuronal apoptosis induced by CCI through miR-194-5p/Runx3/Sirt1 pathway.
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) still remains the most lethal gynaecological malignancy in women, despite the recent progress in the management, including surgery and chemotherapy. According to the microarray data of the GSE18520 and GSE54388 datasets, LINC01215 was identified as an upregulated long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) in EOC. Therefore, this study aimed to figure out the involvement of LINC01215 in the progression of EOC. RT-qPCR was conducted to select the EOC cell line with the highest expression of LINC01215. Methylation of RUNX3 was then examined in EOC cells by MS-PCR. Furthermore, the interaction between LINC01215 and methylation-related proteins was revealed according to the results of RIP and RNA pull down assays. Subsequently, the involvement of LINC01215 and RUNX3 in regulating biological behaviors of EOC cells was investigated. Finally, the effects of the ectopic expression of LINC01215 and RUNX3 on the tumor formation and lymph node metastasis (LNM) of EOC cells were assessed in the xenograft tumors of nude mice. Overexpressing LINC01215 contributed to downregulated levels of RUNX3, as demonstrated by the recruitment of methylation-related proteins. Silencing of LINC01215 elevated the expression of RUNX3, thus suppressing cell proliferation, migration, invasion and EMT and decreasing the expressions of MMP-2, MMP-9 and Vimentin, but increased the expression of E-cadherin. The tumor growth and LNM were suppressed by downregulated levels of LINC01215 through inducing the expression of RUNX3. Collectively, the down-regulating LINC01215 could upregulate the expression of RUNX3 by promoting its methylation, thus suppressing EOC cell proliferation, migration and invasion, EMT, tumor growth and LNM.
BACKGROUND: DNA methylation markers have been associated with lung cancer risk and may identify aetiologically relevant genomic regions, or alternatively, be markers of disease risk factors or biological processes associated with disease development.METHODS: In a nested case-control study, we measured blood leukocyte DNA methylation levels in pre-diagnostic samples collected from 430 participants (208 cases; 222 controls) in the 1989 CLUE II cohort. We compared DNA methylation levels with case/control status to identify novel genomic regions, both single CpG sites and differentially methylated regions (DMRs), while controlling for known DNA methylation changes associated with smoking using a previously described pack-years-based smoking methylation score. Stratification analyses were conducted over time from blood draw to diagnosis, histology, and smoking status.RESULTS: We identified 16 single CpG sites and 40 DMRs significantly associated with lung cancer risk (q < 0.05). The identified genomic regions were associated with genes including H19, HOXA3/HOXA4, RUNX3, BRICD5, PLXNB2, and RP13. For the single CpG sites, the strongest association was noted for cg09736286 in the DIABLO gene (OR [for 1 SD] = 2.99, 95% CI: 1.95-4.59, P-value = 4.81 × 10-7). We found that CpG sites in the HOXA3/HOXA4 region were hypermethylated in cases compared to controls.CONCLUSION: The single CpG sites and DMRs that we identified represented significant measurable differences in lung cancer risk, providing potential biomarkers for lung cancer risk stratification. Future studies will need to examine whether these regions are causally related to lung cancer.
BACKGROUND: Esophageal cancer (ESCA) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers in the world. Tumor immune microenvironment is closely related to tumor prognosis. The present study aimed at analyzing the competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network and tumor-infiltrating immune cells in ESCA.METHODS: The expression profiles of mRNAs, lncRNAs, and miRNAs were downloaded from the Cancer Genome Atlas database. A ceRNA network was established based on the differentially expressed RNAs by Cytoscape. CIBERSORT was applied to estimate the proportion of immune cells in ESCA. Prognosis-associated genes and immune cells were applied to establish prognostic models basing on Lasso and multivariate Cox analyses. The survival curves were constructed with Kaplan-Meier method. The predictive efficacy of the prognostic models was evaluated by the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves.RESULTS: The differentially expressed mRNAs, lncRNAs, and miRNAs were identified. We constructed the ceRNA network including 23 lncRNAs, 19 miRNAs, and 147 mRNAs. Five key molecules (HMGB3, HOXC8, HSPA1B, KLHL15, and RUNX3) were identified from the ceRNA network and five significant immune cells (plasma cells, T cells follicular helper, monocytes, dendritic cells activated, and neutrophils) were selected via CIBERSORT. The ROC curves based on key genes and significant immune cells all showed good sensitivity (AUC of 3-year survival: 0.739, AUC of 5-year survival: 0.899, AUC of 3-year survival: 0.824, AUC of 5-year survival: 0.876). There was certain correlation between five immune cells and five key molecules.CONCLUSION: The present study provides an effective bioinformatics basis for exploring the potential biomarkers of ESCA and predicting its prognosis.
BACKGROUND: A subset of individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) are predisposed to developing diabetic kidney disease (DKD), the most common cause globally of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD). Emerging evidence suggests epigenetic changes in DNA methylation may have a causal role in both T1DM and DKD. The aim of this exploratory investigation was to assess differences in blood-derived DNA methylation patterns between individuals with T1DM-ESKD and individuals with long-duration T1DM but no evidence of kidney disease upon repeated testing to identify potential blood-based biomarkers. Blood-derived DNA from individuals (107 cases, 253 controls and 14 experimental controls) were bisulphite treated before DNA methylation patterns from both groups were generated and analysed using Illumina's Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip arrays (n = 862,927 sites). Differentially methylated CpG sites (dmCpGs) were identified (false discovery rate adjusted p ≤ × 10-8 and fold change ± 2) by comparing methylation levels between ESKD cases and T1DM controls at single site resolution. Gene annotation and functionality was investigated to enrich and rank methylated regions associated with ESKD in T1DM.RESULTS: Top-ranked genes within which several dmCpGs were located and supported by functional data with methylation look-ups in other cohorts include: AFF3, ARID5B, CUX1, ELMO1, FKBP5, HDAC4, ITGAL, LY9, PIM1, RUNX3, SEPTIN9 and UPF3A. Top-ranked enrichment pathways included pathways in cancer, TGF-β signalling and Th17 cell differentiation.CONCLUSIONS: Epigenetic alterations provide a dynamic link between an individual's genetic background and their environmental exposures. This robust evaluation of DNA methylation in carefully phenotyped individuals has identified biomarkers associated with ESKD, revealing several genes and implicated key pathways associated with ESKD in individuals with T1DM.
Ewing Sarcoma (ES) is a rare malignant tumor occurring most frequently in adolescents and young adults. The ES hallmark is a chromosomal translocation between the chromosomes 11 and 22 that results in an aberrant transcription factor (TF) through the fusion of genes from the FET and ETS families, commonly EWSR1 and FLI1. The regulatory mechanisms behind the ES transcriptional alterations remain poorly understood. Here, we reconstruct the ES regulatory network using public available transcriptional data. Seven TFs were identified as potential MRs and clustered into two groups: one composed by PAX7 and RUNX3, and another composed by ARNT2, CREB3L1, GLI3, MEF2C, and PBX3. The MRs within each cluster act as reciprocal agonists regarding the regulation of shared genes, regulon activity, and implications in clinical outcome, while the clusters counteract each other. The regulons of all the seven MRs were differentially methylated. PAX7 and RUNX3 regulon activity were associated with good prognosis while ARNT2, CREB3L1, GLI3, and PBX3 were associated with bad prognosis. PAX7 and RUNX3 appear as highly expressed in ES biopsies and ES cell lines. This work contributes to the understanding of the ES regulome, identifying candidate MRs, analyzing their methilome and pointing to potential prognostic factors.
The human fallopian tube harbors the cell of origin for the majority of high-grade serous "ovarian" cancers (HGSCs), but its cellular composition, particularly the epithelial component, is poorly characterized. We perform single-cell transcriptomic profiling of around 53,000 individual cells from 12 primary fallopian specimens to map their major cell types. We identify 10 epithelial subpopulations with diverse transcriptional programs. Based on transcriptional signatures, we reconstruct a trajectory whereby secretory cells differentiate into ciliated cells via a RUNX3high intermediate. Computational deconvolution of advanced HGSCs identifies the "early secretory" population as a likely precursor state for the majority of HGSCs. Its signature comprises both epithelial and mesenchymal features and is enriched in mesenchymal-type HGSCs (p = 6.7 × 10-27), a group known to have particularly poor prognoses. This cellular and molecular compendium of the human fallopian tube in cancer-free women is expected to advance our understanding of the earliest stages of fallopian epithelial neoplasia.
The BTB zinc finger transcription factor MAZR (also known as PATZ1) controls, partially in synergy with the transcription factor Runx3, the development of CD8 lineage T cells. Here we explored the role of MAZR as well as combined activities of MAZR/Runx3 during cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) and memory CD8+ T cell differentiation. In contrast to the essential role of Runx3 for CTL effector function, the deletion of MAZR had a mild effect on the generation of CTLs in vitro. However, a transcriptome analysis demonstrated that the combined deletion of MAZR and Runx3 resulted in much more widespread downregulation of CTL signature genes compared to single Runx3 deletion, indicating that MAZR partially compensates for loss of Runx3 in CTLs. Moreover, in line with the findings made in vitro, the analysis of CTL responses to LCMV infection revealed that MAZR and Runx3 cooperatively regulate the expression of CD8α, Granzyme B and perforin in vivo. Interestingly, while memory T cell differentiation is severely impaired in Runx3-deficient mice, the deletion of MAZR leads to an enlargement of the long-lived memory subset and also partially restored the differentiation defect caused by loss of Runx3. This indicates distinct functions of MAZR and Runx3 in the generation of memory T cell subsets, which is in contrast to their cooperative roles in CTLs. Together, our study demonstrates complex interplay between MAZR and Runx3 during CTL and memory T cell differentiation, and provides further insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the establishment of CTL and memory T cell pools.
Erratum for    Cancer Lett. 2021 Feb 1;498:130-141.
SLAMF6 is a homotypic receptor of the Ig-superfamily associated with progenitor-exhausted T cells. Here we show that in humans, SLAMF6 has three splice isoforms involving its V-domain. Although the canonical receptor inhibited T-cell activation through SAP recruitment, the short isoform SLAMF6Δ17-65 had a strong agonistic effect. The costimulatory action depended on protein phosphatase SHP1 and led to a cytotoxic molecular profile mediated by the expression of TBX21 and RUNX3. Patients treated with immune checkpoint blockade showed a shift toward SLAMF6Δ17-65 in peripheral blood T cells. We developed splice-switching antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) designed to target the relevant SLAMF6 splice junction. Our ASOs enhanced SLAMF6Δ17-65 expression in human tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and improved their capacity to inhibit human melanoma in mice. The yin-yang relationship of SLAMF6 splice isoforms may represent a balancing mechanism that could be exploited to improve cancer immunotherapy.
The present study aimed to examine the effects of 2.5 µm particulate matter (PM2.5) on airway inflammation and to investigate the possible underlying mechanism. Specifically, the focus was on the imbalance of T helper (Th)1/Th2 cells and the dysregulated expression of transcription factors, including trans‑acting T cell‑specific transcription factor 3 (GATA3), runt‑related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) and T‑box transcription factor TBX21 (T‑bet). In this study, ambient PM2.5 was collected and analyzed, male BALB/c mice were sensitized and treated with PBS, ovalbumin (OVA), PM2.5 or OVA + PM2.5. The effects of PM2.5 alone or PM2.5 + OVA on immunopathological changes, the expression of transcription factors GATA3, Runx3 and T‑bet, and the imbalance of Th1/Th2 were investigated. It was found that PM2.5 + OVA co‑exposure significantly enhanced inflammatory cell infiltration, increased higher tracheal secretions in lung tissue and upregulated respiratory resistance response to acetylcholine compared with PM2.5 or OVA single exposure and control groups. In addition, higher protein and mRNA expression levels of Th2 inflammatory mediators interleukin (IL)‑4, IL‑5 and IL‑13 in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were observed in PM2.5 + OVA treated mice, whereas the expression levels of GATA3 and STAT6 were exhibited in mice exposed to OVA + PM2.5 compared with the OVA and PM2.5 groups. By contrast, PM2.5 exposure decreased the protein and mRNA expression levels of Th1 cytokine interferon‑γ and transcription factors Runx3 and T‑bet, especially among asthmatic mice, different from OVA group, PM2.5 exposure only failed to influence the expression of T‑bet. To conclude, PM2.5 exposure evoked the allergic airway inflammation response, especially in the asthmatic mouse model and led to Th1/Th2 imbalance. These effects worked mainly by upregulating GATA3 and downregulating Runx3. These data suggested that Runx3 may play an important role in PM2.5‑aggravated asthma in BALB/c mice.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a common form of inflammatory spinal arthritis with a complex polygenic aetiology. Genome-wide association studies have identified more than 100 loci, including some involved in antigen presentation (HLA-B27, ERAP1, and ERAP2), some in Th17 responses (IL6R, IL23R, TYK2, and STAT3), and others in macrophages and T-cells (IL7R, CSF2, RUNX3, and GPR65). Such observations have already helped identify potential new therapies targeting IL-17 and GM-CSF. Most AS genetic associations are not in protein-coding sequences but lie in intergenic regions where their direct relationship to particular genes is difficult to assess. They most likely reflect functional polymorphisms concerned with cell type-specific regulation of gene expression. Clarifying the nature of these associations should help to understand the pathogenic pathways involved in AS better and suggest potential cellular and molecular targets for drug therapy. However, even identifying the precise mechanisms behind the extremely strong HLA-B27 association with AS has so far proved elusive. Polygenic risk scores (using all the known genetic associations with AS) can be effective for the diagnosis of AS, particularly where there is a relatively high pre-test probability of AS. Genetic prediction of disease outcomes and response to biologics is not currently practicable.
BACKGROUND: Radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy is widely used for the treatment of rectal cancer preoperatively. Although the combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy as an established preoperative neoadjuvant therapy shows high efficacy in the treatment of rectal cancer, some patients experience a response of poor tolerance and outcomes due to the long duration radiotherapy. The study compared short duration radiotherapy plus chemotherapy vs long duration radiotherapy plus chemotherapy for rectal cancer to determine whether short duration radiation treatment should be considered to diminish complications, reduce risk of recurrence and improve survival in patients with rectal cancer.AIM: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of short duration radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced rectal cancer.METHODS: One hundred patients with stage IIIB or higher severe rectal cancer were selected as the study subjects at The First Affiliated Hospital of Hebei North University between December 2018 and December 2019. The patients were assigned to different groups based on the treatment regimens. Fifty patients who received preoperative short durations of radiotherapy plus chemotherapy were enrolled in an observation group and fifty patients who received conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy were enrolled in a control group. Colonoscopic biopsy was performed for all patients with pathological diagnosis of rectal cancer. The expression of tumor-related factors such as RUNX3 and Ki-67 was quantitatively analyzed using immunohistochemistry in the tissues of the patients before and after treatment. Moreover, the duration of procedure, the amount of bleeding during the operation, the anus-conserving rate, the incidence of postoperative complications (wound infection, anastomotic leakage, postoperative intestinal obstruction, etc.) and postoperative pathology were compared between the two groups. The overall survival rate, recurrence rate and distant metastasis rate were also compared through postoperative reexamination and regular follow-up.RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the positive expression rate of RUNX3 and Ki-67 between the two groups before the treatment (P > 0.05). Compared with the pretreatment value, the positive rate of RUNX3 was increased and the positive rate of Ki-67 was decreased in both groups after the treatment (all P < 0.05). The incidence of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and diarrhea were higher in the observation group than in the control group (all P < 0.05). There was no significant difference in the incidence of anemia, fatigue, neurotoxicity and nausea and vomiting between the two groups (all P > 0.05). No significant difference was observed in the duration of procedure, intraoperative bleeding, the anus-conserving rate and the incidence of postoperative complications between the two groups (P > 0.05). After 1 year of follow-up, the 1-yr survival rate was 80.0% in the observation group and 68.0% in the control group, the recurrence rate was 8.0% in the observation group and 10.0% in the control group, the distant metastasis rate was 6.0% in the observation group and 8.0% in the control group difference (all P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Short duration radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy can improve the cure rate, prolong the survival time and reduce the incidence of complications in patients with advanced rectal cancer.
Enhancer of zester homolog 2 (EZH2), a histone methyl transferase that mediates H3K27me3 through polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), is overexpressed in ovarian cancer and promotes malignant proliferation. However, the underlying mechanism of maintaining high EZH2 expression remains elusive. Here we showed that microRNA(miRNA) inhibited EZH2 by binding to the 3'-UTR of EZH2 mRNA; conversely, EZH2 can inhibit miRNA expression. We confirmed that a feedback loop exists between EZH2 and miRNA that maintained EZH2 overexpression, thus promoting ovarian cancer proliferation in vivo and in vitro. We further explored that EZH2 inhibited miRNA expression through PRC2, as determined by CHIP (chromatin immunoprecipitation), and EZH2 decreased the expression of p21, p53, and RUNX3. These results suggest that EZH2 inhibits the expression of Et-miRNAs (EZH2-targeting miRNAs) through the H3K27me3 pathway, thus forming an EZH2-miRNA positive feedback loop that maintains the high expression of EZH2 and promotes the malignant proliferation of cancer cells by regulating the expression of cell proliferation-related proteins.
Exosomes are involved in a range of processes in lung cancer such as cell proliferation, metastasis, and angiogenesis. Tumor-derived exosomes participate in the formation and progression of lung cancer by delivering functional biomolecules, including microRNAs (miRNA). The purpose of the present study was to determine the role of lung cancer cell-derived exosomal miR-210 in the proliferation and invasion of lung cancer cells and its underlying mechanism. Initially, exosomes were isolated from A549 cells and characterized by transmission electron microscopy and assessment of exosomal marker expression. RT-qPCR determined that miR-210 expression was elevated in exosomes as well as lung cancer cells. As reflected by dual-luciferase reporter assay, miR-210 negatively regulated RUNX3 expression. Following loss- and gain- function assay, it was found that miR-210 inhibition suppressed biological properties of A549 and H460 cells, which could be reversed by the silencing of RUNX3. miR-210 elevation induced the p-PI3K/PI3K and p-AKT/AKT levels, suggesting the activation of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Collectively, exosomal miR-210 targeted and negatively regulated RUNX3 expression to promote malignant properties of lung cancer cells by potentiating PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
Runt-related transcription factor-3 (Runx3) is a tumor suppressor, and its contribution to melanoma progression remains unclear. We previously demonstrated that Runx3 re-expression in B16-F10 melanoma cells changed their shape and attenuated their migration. In this study, we found that Runx3 re-expression in B16-F10 cells also suppressed their pulmonary metastasis. We performed microarray analysis and uncovered an altered transcriptional profile underlying the cell shape change and the suppression of migration and metastasis. This altered transcriptional profile was rich in Gene Ontology/Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (GO/KEGG) annotations relevant to adhesion and the actin cytoskeleton and included differentially expressed genes for some major extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins as well as genes that were inversely associated with the increase in the metastatic potential of B16-F10 cells compared to B16-F0 melanoma cells. Further, we found that this altered transcriptional profile could have prognostic value, as evidenced by myelin and lymphocyte protein (MAL) and vilin-like (VILL). Finally, Mal gene expression was correlated with metastatic potential among the cells and was targeted by histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors in B16-F10 cells, and the knockdown of Mal gene expression in B16-F0 cells changed their shape and enhanced the migratory and invasive traits of their metastasis. Our study suggests that self-entrapping of metastatic Runx3-negative melanoma cells via adhesion and the actin cytoskeleton could be a powerful therapeutic strategy.
PURPOSE: Our previous studies have demonstrated that Krüppel-like factor 10 (Klf10) modulated tumor radiation resistance and helps to predict clinical outcomes of pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This study aimed to evaluate whether the expression levels of Klf10, Smad4 and Runx3 can help predict the benefits of adjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in resected PDAC.METHODS AND MATERIALS: Tissue specimens were collected from 111 patients with curatively resected PDAC who were enrolled into a randomized trial comparing adjuvant gemcitabine with or without CRT. Immunohistochemical expression of biomarkers was quantified by pathologists blinded to patient outcomes through a grading system based on the extent and intensity of staining. The predictive value of biomarkers was analyzed using SAS statistical software.RESULTS: In total, 56 and 55 patients received adjuvant gemcitabine alone and additional CRT, respectively. The expression levels of Klf10, Smad4 and postoperative CA19-9 were significantly correlated with overall survival (OS) (p = 0.013, 0.045, and 0.047, respectively). Multivariable analysis showed that the expression level of postoperative serum CA19-9 and tumor tissue Klf10 expression level were significant predictors for OS (p = 0.038, and 0.028, respectively). Patients with high Klf10 or Smad4 (n = 55), had a significantly better local recurrence-free survival (∞ vs 19.8 months; p = 0.026) and a longer OS (33.0 vs 23.0 months; p = 0.12) if they received additional adjuvant CRT than gemcitabine only. The results were similar after adjusted by postoperative level of CA19-9.CONCLUSION: Patients with curatively resected PDAC and a high expression of either Klf10 or Smad4 have high chances of benefiting from adjuvant CRT. Combining Klf10 and Smad4 to predict the benefits of adjuvant CRT in resected PDAC deserves further validation.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is the strong risk factor for a series of gastric pathological changes. Persistent colonization of H. pylori leading to chronic infection is responsible for gastritis and malignancy. Autophagy is an evolutionary conserved process which can protect cells and organisms from bacterial infection. Here, we demonstrated that H. pylori infection induced autophagosome formation but inhibited autophagic flux. SIRT1, a class III histone deacetylase, was down-regulated at both mRNA and protein levels by H. pylori infection in gastric cells. Further investigation showed that the transcriptional factor RUNX3 accounted for down-regulation of SIRT1 in H. pylori-infected gastric cells. SIRT1 promoted autophagic flux in gastric cells and activation of SIRT1 restored the autophagic flux inhibited by H. pylori infection. Furthermore, SIRT1 exerted inhibitory effects on intracellular survival and colonization of H. pylori. And activation of autophagic flux in SIRT1-inhibited gastric cells could significantly reduce intracellular load of H. pylori. Moreover, the relationship between H. pylori infection and SIRT1 expression was identified in clinical specimen. Our findings define the importance of SIRT1 in compromised autophagy induced by H. pylori infection and bacterial intracellular colonization. These results provide evidence that SIRT1 can serve as a therapeutic target to eradicate H. pylori infection.
Comment in    Cell. 2021 Mar 4;184(5):1135-1136.
RUNX3, a transcription factor, has been implicated as a tumor suppressor in various cancers, including hematological malignancies; however, recent studies revealed an oncogenic function of RUNX3 in the pathogenesis of myeloid malignancies, such as myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia. In contrast to the high frequency of mutations in the RUNX1 gene, deletion of and loss-of-function mutations in RUNX3 are rarely detected in patients with hematopoietic malignancies. Although RUNX3 is expressed in normal hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, its expression decreases with aging in humans. The loss of Runx3 did not result in the development of lethal hematological diseases in mice despite the expansion of myeloid cells. Therefore, RUNX3 does not appear to initiate the transformation of normal hematopoietic stem cells. However, the overexpression of RUNX3 inhibits the expression and transcriptional function of the RUNX1 gene, but activates the expression of key oncogenic pathways, such as MYC, resulting in the transformation of premalignant stem cells harboring a driver genetic mutation. We herein discuss the mechanisms by which RUNX3 is activated and how RUNX3 exerts oncogenic effects on the cellular function of and transcriptional program in premalignant stem cells to drive myeloid transformation.
Proprioceptive neurons (PNs) are essential for the proper execution of all our movements by providing muscle sensory feedback to the central motor network. Here, using deep single cell RNAseq of adult PNs coupled with virus and genetic tracings, we molecularly identify three main types of PNs (Ia, Ib and II) and find that they segregate into eight distinct subgroups. Our data unveil a highly sophisticated organization of PNs into discrete sensory input channels with distinct spatial distribution, innervation patterns and molecular profiles. Altogether, these features contribute to finely regulate proprioception during complex motor behavior. Moreover, while Ib- and II-PN subtypes are specified around birth, Ia-PN subtypes diversify later in life along with increased motor activity. We also show Ia-PNs plasticity following exercise training, suggesting Ia-PNs are important players in adaptive proprioceptive function in adult mice.
The prognosis of late-stage epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) patients is affected by chemotherapy response and the malignant potential of the tumor cells. In earlier work, we identified hypermethylation of the runt-related transcription factor 3 gene (RUNX3) as a prognostic biomarker and contrary functions of transcript variants (TV1 and TV2) in A2780 and SKOV3 cells. The aim of the study was to further validate these results and to increase the knowledge about RUNX3 function in EOC. New RUNX3 overexpression models of high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) were established and analyzed for phenotypic (IC50 determination, migration, proliferation and angiogenesis assay, DNA damage analysis) and transcriptomic consequences (NGS) of RUNX3 TV1 and TV2 overexpression. Platinum sensitivity was affected by a specific transcript variant depending on BRCA background. RUNX3 TV2 induced an increased sensitivity in BRCA1wt cells (OVCAR3), whereas TV1 increased the sensitivity and induced a G2/M arrest under treatment in BRCA1mut cells (A13-2-12). These different phenotypes relate to differences in DNA repair: homologous recombination deficient A13-2-12 cells show less γH2AX foci despite higher levels of Pt-DNA adducts. RNA-Seq analyses prove transcript variant and cell-line-specific RUNX3 effects. Pathway analyses revealed another clinically important function of RUNX3-regulation of angiogenesis. This was confirmed by thrombospondin1 analyses, HUVEC spheroid sprouting assays and proteomic profiling. Importantly, conditioned media (CM) from RUNX3 TV1 overexpressing A13-2-12 cells induced an increased HUVEC sprouting. Altogether, the presented data support the hypothesis of different functions of RUNX3 transcript variants related to the clinically relevant processes-platinum resistance and angiogenesis.
BACKGROUND: Complex interactions between the environment and the mucosal immune system underlie inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). The involved cytokine signalling pathways are modulated by a number of transcription factors, one of which is runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3).OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the immune roles of RUNX3 in immune regulation, with a focus on the context of IBD.METHODS: Relevant articles and reviews were identified through a Scopus search in April 2020. Information was categorized by immune cell types, analysed and synthesized. IBD transcriptome data sets and FANTOM5 regulatory networks were processed in order to complement the literature review.RESULTS: The available evidence on the immune roles of RUNX3 allowed for its description in twelve cell types: intraepithelial lymphocyte, Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg, double-positive T, cytotoxic T, B, dendritic, innate lymphoid, natural killer and macrophages. In the gut, the activity of RUNX3 is multifaceted and context-dependent: it may promote homeostasis or exacerbated reactions via cytokine signalling and regulation of receptor expression. RUNX3 is mostly engaged in pathways involving ThPOK, T-bet, IFN-γ, TGF-β/IL-2Rβ, GATA/CBF-β, SMAD/p300 and a number of miRNAs. RUNX3 targets relevant to IBD may include RAG1, OSM and IL-17B. Moreover, in IBD RUNX3 expression correlates positively with GZMM, and negatively with IFNAR1, whereas in controls, it strongly associates with TGFBR3.CONCLUSIONS: Dysregulation of RUNX3, mostly in the form of deficiency, likely contributes to IBD pathogenesis. More clinical research is needed to examine RUNX3 in IBD.
BACKGROUND: To date, no predictive or prognostic molecular biomarkers except BRCA mutations are clinically established for epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) despite being the deadliest gynecological malignancy. Aim of this biomarker study was the analysis of DNA methylation biomarkers for their prognostic value independent from clinical variables in a heterogeneous cohort of 203 EOC patients from two university medical centers.RESULTS: The marker combination CAMK2N1/RUNX3 exhibited a significant prognostic value for progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of sporadic platinum-sensitive EOC (n = 188) both in univariate Kaplan-Meier (LogRank p < 0.05) and multivariate Cox regression analysis (p < 0.05; hazard ratio HR = 1.587). KRT86 methylation showed a prognostic value only in univariate analysis because of an association with FIGO staging (Fisher's exact test p < 0.01). Thus, it may represent a marker for EOC staging. Dichotomous prognostic values were observed for KATNAL2 methylation depending on BRCA aberrations. KATNAL2 methylation exhibited a negative prognostic value for PFS in sporadic EOC patients without BRCA1 methylation (HR 1.591, p = 0.012) but positive prognostic value in sporadic EOC with BRCA1 methylation (HR 0.332, p = 0.04) or BRCA-mutated EOC (HR 0.620, n.s.).CONCLUSION: The retrospective analysis of 188 sporadic platinum-sensitive EOC proved an independent prognostic value of the methylation marker combination CAMK2N1/RUNX3 for PFS and OS. If validated prospectively this combination may identify EOC patients with worse prognosis after standard therapy potentially benefiting from intensive follow-up, maintenance therapies or inclusion in therapeutic studies. The dichotomous prognostic value of KATNAL2 should be validated in larger sample sets of EOC.
OBJECTIVE: To identify rheumatoid arthritis (RA)-associated susceptibility genes and pathways through integrating genome-wide association study (GWAS) and gene expression profile data.METHODS: A transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) was conducted by the FUSION software for RA considering EBV-transformed lymphocytes (EL), transformed fibroblasts (TF), peripheral blood (NBL), and whole blood (YBL). GWAS summary data was driven from a large-scale GWAS, involving 5539 autoantibody-positive RA patients and 20,169 controls. The TWAS-identified genes were further validated using the mRNA expression profiles and made a functional exploration.RESULTS: TWAS identified 692 genes with PTWAS values < 0.05 for RA. CRIPAK (PEL = 0.01293, PTF = 0.00038, PNBL = 0.02839, PYBL = 0.0978), MUT (PEL = 0.00377, PTF = 0.00076, PNBL = 0.00778, PYBL = 0.00096), FOXRED1 (PEL = 0.03834, PTF = 0.01120, PNBL = 0.01280, PYBL = 0.00583), and EBPL (PEL = 0.00806, PTF = 0.03761, PNBL = 0.03540, PYBL = 0.04254) were collectively expressed in all the four tissues/cells. Eighteen genes, including ANXA5, AP4B1, ATIC (PTWAS = 0.0113, downregulated expression), C12orf65, CMAH, PDHB, RUNX3 (PTWAS = 0.0346, downregulated expression), SBF1, SH2B3, STK38, TMEM43, XPNPEP1, KIAA1530, NUFIP2, PPP2R3C, RAB24, STX6, and TLR5 (PTWAS = 0.04665, upregulated expression), were validated with integrative analysis of TWAS and mRNA expression profiles. TWAS-identified genes functionally involved in endoplasmic reticulum organization, regulation of cytokine production, TNF signaling pathway, immune response-regulating signaling pathway, regulation of autophagy, etc. CONCLUSION: We identified multiple candidate genes and pathways, providing novel clues for the genetic mechanism of RA.
Runt domain-related (Runx) transcription factors are essential for early T cell development in mice from uncommitted to committed stages. Single and double Runx knockouts via Cas9 show that target genes responding to Runx activity are not solely controlled by the dominant factor, Runx1. Instead, Runx1 and Runx3 are coexpressed in single cells; bind to highly overlapping genomic sites; and have redundant, collaborative functions regulating genes pivotal for T cell development. Despite stable combined expression levels across pro-T cell development, Runx1 and Runx3 preferentially activate and repress genes that change expression dynamically during lineage commitment, mostly activating T-lineage genes and repressing multipotent progenitor genes. Furthermore, most Runx target genes are sensitive to Runx perturbation only at one stage and often respond to Runx more for expression transitions than for maintenance. Contributing to this highly stage-dependent gene regulation function, Runx1 and Runx3 extensively shift their binding sites during commitment. Functionally distinct Runx occupancy sites associated with stage-specific activation or repression are also distinguished by different patterns of partner factor cobinding. Finally, Runx occupancies change coordinately at numerous clustered sites around positively or negatively regulated targets during commitment. This multisite binding behavior may contribute to a developmental "ratchet" mechanism making commitment irreversible.
Pashmina goat (Capra hircus) is an economically important livestock species, which habitats the cold arid desert of the Ladakh region (India), and produces a princely animal fiber called Pashmina. The Pashmina goat has a double coat fleece as an adaptation to the very harsh cold winters the outer long coarse hair (guard hair) produced from primary hair follicles and the inner fine Pashmina fiber produced from secondary hair follicles. Pashmina fiber undergoes a circannual and synchronized growth cycle. In the present study, we analyzed transcriptome profiles from 10 different Pashmina goats during anagen and telogen to delineate genes and signaling pathways regulating active (anagen) and regressive (telogen) phases of the follicle growth. During anagen, 150 genes were expressed at significantly higher levels with log (FC) > 2 and padj < 0.05. The RNA seq results were subjected to qRT-PCR validation. Among the nine genes selected, the expression of HAS1, TRIB2, P2RX1. PRG4, CNR2, and MMP25 were significantly higher (p < 0.05) in the anagen phase, whereas MC4R, GIPC2, and CDO1 were significantly expressed (p < 0.05) in the telogen phase which supports and validates the gene expression pattern from the RNA-sequencing. Differentially expressed genes revealed that Pashmina fiber initiation is largely controlled by signaling pathways like Wnt, NF-Kappa, JAK-STAT, Hippo, MAPK, Calcium, and PI3K-Akt. Expression of genes from the Integrin family, Cell adhesion molecules, and ECM-receptors were observed to be at much higher levels during anagen. We identified key genes (IL36RN, IGF2, ITGAV, ITGA5, ITCCR7, CXCL5, C3, CCL19, and CXCR3) and a collagen cluster which might be tightly correlated with anagen-induction. The regulatory network suggests the potential role of RUNX3, NR2F1/2, and GATA family transcription factors in anagen-initiation and maintaining fiber quality in Pashmina goats.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a prototypical organ-specific autoimmune disease that is mediated by autoreactive T-cell attack and destruction of cholangiocytes. Despite the clear role of autoimmunity in PBC, immune-directed therapies have failed to halt PBC, including biologic therapies effective in other autoimmune diseases. MicroRNA (miRNA) dysregulation is implicated in the pathogenesis (PBC). In the dominant-negative TGF-β receptor type II (dnTGFβRII) mouse model of PBC, autoreactive CD8 T cells play a major pathogenic role and demonstrate a striking pattern of miRNA down-regulation. Enoxacin is a small molecule fluoroquinolone that enhances miRNA biogenesis, partly by stabilizing the interaction of transactivation response RNA-binding protein with Argonaute (Ago) 2.APPROACH AND RESULTS: We hypothesized that correcting aberrant T-cell miRNA expression with enoxacin in dnTGFβRII mice could modulate autoreactive T-cell function and prevent PBC. Here, we show that liver-infiltrating dnTGFβRII CD8 T cells have significantly decreased levels of the miRNA biogenesis molecules prolyl 4-hydroxylase subunit alpha 1 (P4HA1) and Ago2 along with significantly increased levels of granzyme B and perforin. Enoxacin treatment significantly up-regulated miRNAs in dnTGFβRII CD8 T cells and effectively treated autoimmune cholangitis in dnTGFβRII mice. Enoxacin treatment directly altered T cells both ex vivo and in vitro, resulting in altered memory subset numbers, decreased proliferation, and decreased interferon-γ production. Enoxacin significantly decreased CD8 T-cell expression of the transcription factor, Runx3, and significantly decreased perforin expression at both the mRNA and protein levels.CONCLUSIONS: Enoxacin increases miRNA expression in dnTGFβRII CD8 T cells, reduces CD8 T-cell pathogenicity, and effectively halted progression of autoimmune biliary disease. Targeting the miRNA pathway is a therapeutic approach to autoimmunity that corrects pathological miRNA abnormalities in autoreactive T cells.
BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed malignancy among women. However, the role of microRNA (miRNA) expression in breast cancer progression is not fully understood. In this study we examined predictive interactions between differentially expressed miRNAs and mRNAs in breast cancer cell lines representative of the common molecular subtypes. Integrative bioinformatics analysis identified miR-193 and miR-210 as potential regulatory biomarkers of mRNA in breast cancer. Several recent studies have investigated these miRNAs in a broad range of tumors, but the mechanism of their involvement in cancer progression has not previously been investigated.METHODS: The miRNA-mRNA interactions in breast cancer cell lines were identified by parallel expression analysis and miRNA target prediction programs. The expression profiles of mRNA and miRNAs from luminal (MCF-7, MCF-7/AZ and T47D), HER2 (BT20 and SK-BR3) and triple negative subtypes (Hs578T e MDA-MB-231) could be clearly separated by unsupervised analysis using HB4A cell line as a control. Breast cancer miRNA data from TCGA patients were grouped according to molecular subtypes and then used to validate these findings. Expression of miR-193 and miR-210 was investigated by miRNA transient silencing assays using the MCF7, BT20 and MDA-MB-231 cell lines. Functional studies included, xCELLigence system, ApoTox-Glo triplex assay, flow cytometry and transwell inserts were performed to determine cell proliferation, cytotoxicity, apoptosis, migration and invasion, respectively.RESULTS: The most evident effects were associated with cell proliferation after miR-210 silencing in triple negative subtype cell line MDA-MB-231. Using in silico prediction algorithms, TNFRSF10 was identified as one of the potential regulated downstream targets for both miRNAs. The TNFRSF10C and TNFRSF10D mRNA expression inversely correlated with the expression levels of miR-193 and miR210 in breast cell lines and breast cancer patients, respectively. Other potential regulated genes whose expression also inversely correlated with both miRNAs were CCND1, a known mediator on invasion and metastasis, and the tumor suppressor gene RUNX3.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our findings identify miR-193 and miR-210 as potential regulatory miRNA in different molecular subtypes of breast cancer and suggest that miR-210 may have a specific role in MDA-MB-231 proliferation. Our results highlight important new downstream regulated targets that may serve as promising therapeutic pathways for aggressive breast cancers.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigens 2 (EBNA2) mediated super-enhancers, defined by in silico data, localize near genes associated with B cell transcription factors including RUNX3. However, the biological function of super-enhancer for RUNX3 gene (seR3) remains unclear. Here, we show that two seR3s, tandemly-located at 59- and 70-kb upstream of RUNX3 transcription start site, named seR3 -59h and seR3 -70h, are required for RUNX3 expression and cell proliferation in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive malignant B cells. A BET bromodomain inhibitor, JQ1, potently suppressed EBV-positive B cell growth through the reduction of RUNX3 and MYC expression. Excision of either or both seR3s by employing CRISPR/Cas9 system resulted in the decrease in RUNX3 expression and the subsequent suppression of cell proliferation and colony forming capability. The expression of MYC was also reduced when seR3s were deleted, probably due to the loss of trans effect of seR3s on the super-enhancers for MYC. These findings suggest that seR3s play a pivotal role in expression and biological function of both RUNX3 and MYC. seR3s would serve as a potential therapeutic target in EBV-related widespread tumors.
BACKGROUND: Although serum carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) is widely used as a useful biomarker of pancreatic cancer for monitoring the response to therapy, it is not recommended for screening of early pancreatic cancer because of its limited sensitivity for small tumors. Thus, it is critical to discover novel serum biomarkers to complement CA19-9 in order to improve sensitivity. Although methylated runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a biomarker of pancreatic cancer, its detection by conventional bisulfite-based methylation assays from a small serum sample amount is very difficult. Therefore, we developed a new methylation assay, the combined restriction digital PCR (CORD) assay, that enables counting of even one copy of a methylated gene in a small DNA sample amount without DNA bisulfite treatment.OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of serum DNA testing of methylated RUNX3 by the CORD assay in combination with and without CA19-9 for the detection of pancreatic cancer in 55 patients with pancreatic cancer, 12 patients with benign pancreatic disease, and 80 healthy individuals.RESULTS: The CORD assay of methylated RUNX3 had a sensitivity of 50.9% (28/55) and specificity of 93.5% (86/92). Combination of the CORD assay of methylated RUNX3 and CA19-9 resulted in a sensitivity of 85.5% (47/55) and specificity of 93.5% (86/92) for all stages of pancreatic cancer and a sensitivity of 77.8% (7/9) for stage I pancreatic cancer.CONCLUSIONS: ombination of the CORD assay and CA19-9 may provide an alternative screening strategy for detecting early-stage pancreatic cancer.
The heterogeneity and complexity of tumor-immune microenvironments lead to diverse immunotherapy effects among colon cancer patients. It is crucial to identify immune microenvironment-related biomarkers and construct prognostic risk models. In this study, the immune and stromal scores of 415 cases from TCGA were calculated using the ESTIMATE algorithm. AXIN2, CCL22, CLEC10A, CRIP2, RUNX3, and TRPM5 were screened and established a prognostic immune-related gene (IRG) signature using by univariate, LASSO, and multivariate Cox regression models. The predicted performance of IRG signature was external validated by GSE39582 (n=519). Stratified survival analysis showed IRG signature was an effective predictor of survival in patients with different clinical characteristics. The protein expression level of six genes was validated by immunohistochemistry analysis. Difference analysis indicated the mutation rate, immune cell of resting NK cells and regulatory T cells infiltration and four immune checkpoints of PD-1, PD-L1, LAG3 and VSIR expression levels in the high-risk group were significantly higher than those in the low-risk group. A nomogram incorporating the gene signatures and clinical factors was demonstrated had a good accuracy (1-, 3-, and 5-year AUC= 0.799, 0.791, 0.738). Our study identified a novel IRG signature, which may provide some references for the clinical precision immunotherapy of patients.
CD4 and CD8 mark helper and cytotoxic T cell lineages, respectively, and serve as coreceptors for MHC-restricted TCR recognition. How coreceptor expression is matched with TCR specificity is central to understanding CD4/CD8 lineage choice, but visualising coreceptor gene activity in individual selection intermediates has been technically challenging. It therefore remains unclear whether the sequence of coreceptor gene expression in selection intermediates follows a stereotypic pattern, or is responsive to signaling. Here we use single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) to classify mouse thymocyte selection intermediates by coreceptor gene expression. In the unperturbed thymus, Cd4+Cd8a- selection intermediates appear before Cd4-Cd8a+ selection intermediates, but the timing of these subsets is flexible according to the strength of TCR signals. Our data show that selection intermediates discriminate MHC class prior to the loss of coreceptor expression and suggest a model where signal strength informs the timing of coreceptor gene activity and ultimately CD4/CD8 lineage choice.
Purpose: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is the sixth most prevalent malignant tumor worldwide, and the radiotherapy effect is strongly associated with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Therefore, the aim of our study was to analyze the mechanism of HPV E7 and its effects on radiosensitivity in HNSCC cells. Methods: The mRNA expression of DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8 (DGCR8), has-miR-106a, and Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was examined by quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR). The protein expression of DGCR8, E7, RUNX3, caspase-3/cleaved caspase-3, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP)/cleaved PARP, and γH2AX was measured by Western blot. The expression level of DGCR8 was measured by immunofluorescence assay. Starbase database (http://starbase.sysu.edu.cn/) was used to analyze the correlation between has-miR-106a-5p and DGCR8. TargetScan database (http://www.targetscan.org/vert_72/) was adopted to calculate the prediction of binding sites. Radiosensitivity was evaluated through clone formation assays and Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) assays. Results: In our study, we found that the mRNA and protein expression levels of HPV E7 and DGCR8 in HPV-positive HNSCC cells were higher than those in HPV-negative cells. The expression of DGCR8 was increased in FaDu and UM-SCC-4 with E7 overexpression, while the expression of DGCR8 was decreased in UM-SCC-47 and UPCI-SCC-090 with E7 silence. The miR-106a expression was increased after DGCR8 overexpression in FaDu and UM-SCC-4. However, the miR-106a expression was decreased in UM-SCC-47 and UPCI-SCC-090 with E7 silence. In radiation conditions, clone formation assays found that less clones formed in FaDu and UM-SCC-4 cells subsequent to silencing DGCR8 or miR-106a than that in the control group, and more clones were formed in UM-SCC-47 and UPCI-SCC-090 cells overexpressing DGCR8 or miR-106a than that in the control group. Luciferase reporter gene assays verified that miR-106a targeted the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of RUNX3 mRNA. MiR-106a overexpression resulted in a decrease in RUNX3 expression, and miR-106a silence increased RUNX3 expression. Rescue experiments conducted with miR-106a inhibitor restored radiation resistance and reduced DNA damage in radiation condition. Conclusions: Our study indicated that HPV E7 activated DGCR8/miR-106a/RUNX3 axis to enhance radiation sensitivity and provided directions for targeted therapeutic interventions.
The level of CD40 expression on dendritic cells (DCs) plays a decisive role in disease protection during Leishmania donovani (LD) infection. However, current understanding of the molecular regulation of CD40 expression remains elusive. Using molecular, cellular and functional approaches, we identified a role for Runx1 and Runx3 transcription factors in the regulation of CD40 expression in DCs. In response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) or antileishmanial drug sodium antimony gluconate (SAG), both Runx1 and Runx3 translocated to the nucleus, bound to the CD40 promoter and upregulated CD40 expression on DCs. These activities of Runx proteins were mediated by the upstream phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway. Notably, LD infection attenuated LPS- or TNFα-induced CD40 expression in DCs by inhibiting PI3K-Akt-Runx axis via protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1. In contrast, CD40 expression induced by SAG was unaffected by LD infection, as SAG by blocking LD-induced SHP-1 activation potentiated PI3K-Akt signaling to drive Runx-mediated CD40 upregulation. Adoptive transfer experiments further showed that Runx1 and Runx3 play a pivotal role in eliciting antileishmanial immune response of SAG-treated DCs in vivo by promoting CD40-mediated type-1 T cell responses. Importantly, antimony-resistant LD suppressed SAG-induced CD40 upregulation on DCs by blocking the PI3K-Akt-Runx pathway through sustained SHP-1 activation. These findings unveil an immunoregulatory role for Runx proteins during LD infection.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the functional consequences of the single-nucleotide polymorphism rs4648889 in a putative enhancer upstream of the RUNX3 promoter associated with susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis (AS).METHODS: Using nuclear extracts from Jurkat cells and primary human CD8+ T cells, the effects of rs4648889 on allele-specific transcription factor (TF) binding were investigated by DNA pull-down assay and quantitative mass spectrometry (qMS), with validation by electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA), Western blotting of the pulled-down eluates, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) analysis. Further functional effects were tested by small interfering RNA knockdown of the gene for interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), followed by reverse transcription-qPCR (RT-qPCR) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to measure the levels of IFNγ messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein, respectively.RESULTS: In nuclear extracts from CD8+ T cells, results of qMS showed that relative TF binding to the AS-risk A allele of rs4648889 was increased 3.7-fold (P < 0.03) for Ikaros family zinc-finger protein 3 (IKZF3; Aiolos) and components of the NuRD complex, including chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 4 (CHD4) (3.6-fold increase; P < 0.05) and retinoblastoma binding protein 4 (RBBP4) (4.1-fold increase; P < 0.03). In contrast, IRF5 bound significantly more to the AS-protective G allele compared to the AS-risk A allele (fold change 8.2; P = 0.003). Validation with Western blotting, EMSA, and ChIP-qPCR confirmed the differential allelic binding of IKZF3, CHD4, RBBP4, and IRF5. Silencing of IRF5 in CD8+ T cells increased the levels of IFNγ mRNA as measured by RT-qPCR (P = 0.03) and IFNγ protein as measured by ELISA (P = 0.02).CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the association of rs4648889 with AS reflects allele-specific binding of this enhancer-like region to certain TFs, including IRF5, IKZF3, and members of the NuRD complex. IRF5 may have crucial influences on the functions of CD8+ lymphocytes, a finding that could reveal new therapeutic targets for the management of AS.
Psoriasis vulgaris (PV) is a chronic, recurrent inflammatory dermatosis mediated by aberrantly activated immune cells. The role of the innate-like T cells, particularly gammadelta T (γδT) cells and MR1-restricted T lymphocytes, is incompletely explored, mainly through animal models, or by use of surrogate lineage markers, respectively. Here, we used case-control settings, multiparameter flow cytometry, 5-OP-RU-loaded MR1-tetramers, Luminex technology and targeted qRT-PCR to dissect the cellular and transcriptional landscape of γδ and MR1-restricted blood T cells in untreated PV cases (n=21, 22 matched controls). High interpersonal differences in cell composition were observed, fueling transcriptional variability at healthy baseline. A minor subset of canonical CD4+CD8+MR1-tet+TCRVα7.2+ and CD4+CD8-MR1-tet+TCRVα7.2+ T cells was the most significantly underrepresented community in male PV individuals, whereas Vδ2+ γδ T cells expressing high levels of TCR and Vδ1-δ2- γδ T cells expressing intermediate levels of TCR were selectively enriched in affected males, partly reflecting disease severity. Our findings highlight a formerly unappreciated skewing of human circulating MAIT and γδ cytomes during PV, and reveal their compositional changes in relation to sex, CMV exposure, serum cytokine content, BMI, and inflammatory burden. Complementing numerical alterations, we finally show that flow-sorted, MAIT and γδ populations exhibit divergent transcriptional changes in mild type I psoriasis, consisting of differential bulk expression for signatures of cytotoxicity/type-1 immunity (EOMES, RUNX3, IL18R), type-3 immunity (RORC, CCR6), and T cell innateness (ZBTB16).
Articular cartilage is a skeletal tissue of avascular nature and limited self-repair capacity. Cartilage-degenerative diseases, such as osteoarthritis (OA), are difficult to treat and often necessitate joint replacement surgery. Cartilage is a tough but flexible material and relatively easy to damage. It is, therefore, of high interest to develop methods allowing chondrocytes to recolonize, to rebuild the cartilage and to restore joint functionality. Here we studied the in vitro production of cartilage-like tissue using human articular chondrocytes exposed to the Random Positioning Machine (RPM), a device to simulate certain aspects of microgravity on Earth. To screen early adoption reactions of chondrocytes exposed to the RPM, we performed quantitative real-time PCR analyses after 24 h on chondrocytes cultured in DMEM/F-12. A significant up-regulation in the gene expression of IL6, RUNX2, RUNX3, SPP1, SOX6, SOX9, and MMP13 was detected, while the levels of IL8, ACAN, PRG4, ITGB1, TGFB1, COL1A1, COL2A1, COL10A1, SOD3, SOX5, MMP1, and MMP2 mRNAs remained unchanged. The STRING (Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins) analysis demonstrated among others the importance of these differentially regulated genes for cartilage formation. Chondrocytes grown in DMEM/F-12 medium produced three-dimensional (3D) spheroids after five days without the addition of scaffolds. On day 28, the produced tissue constructs reached up to 2 mm in diameter. Using specific chondrocyte growth medium, similar results were achieved within 14 days. Spheroids from both types of culture media showed the typical cartilage morphology with aggrecan positivity. Intermediate filaments form clusters under RPM conditions as detected by vimentin staining after 7 d and 14 d. Larger meshes appear in the network in 28-day samples. Furthermore, they were able to form a confluent chondrocyte monolayer after being transferred back into cell culture flasks in 1 g conditions showing their suitability for transplantation into joints. Our results demonstrate that the cultivation medium has a direct influence on the velocity of tissue formation and tissue composition. The spheroids show properties that make them interesting candidates for cellular cartilage regeneration approaches in trauma and OA therapy.
The molecular mechanisms underlying HIV-induced inflammation, which persists even during effective long-term treatment, remain incompletely defined. Here, we studied pathogenic and nonpathogenic simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) infections in macaques and African green monkeys, respectively. We longitudinally analyzed genome-wide DNA methylation changes in CD4 + T cells from lymph node and blood, using arrays. DNA methylation changes after SIV infection were more pronounced in lymph nodes than blood and already detected in primary infection. Differentially methylated genes in pathogenic SIV infection were enriched for Th1-signaling (e.g., RUNX3, STAT4, NFKB1) and metabolic pathways (e.g., PRKCZ). In contrast, nonpathogenic SIVagm infection induced DNA methylation in genes coding for regulatory proteins such as LAG-3, arginase-2, interleukin-21 and interleukin-31. Between 15 and 18% of genes with DNA methylation changes were differentially expressed in CD4 + T cells in vivo. Selected identified sites were validated using bisulfite pyrosequencing in an independent cohort of uninfected, viremic and SIV controller macaques. Altered DNA methylation was confirmed in blood and lymph node CD4 + T cells in viremic macaques but was notably absent from SIV controller macaques. Our study identified key genes differentially methylated already in primary infection and in tissues that could contribute to the persisting metabolic disorders and inflammation in HIV-infected individuals despite effective treatment.
BACKGROUND: Tetraspanin CD82 is a tumor metastasis suppressor that is known to down regulate in various metastatic cancers. However, the exact mechanism by which CD82 prevents cancer metastasis is unclear. This study aims to identify genes that are regulated by CD82 in human prostate cell lines.METHODS: We used whole human genome microarray to obtain gene expression profiles in a normal prostate epithelial cell line that expressed CD82 (PrEC-31) and a metastatic prostate cell line that does not express CD82 (PC3). Then, siRNA silencing was used to knock down CD82 expression in PrEC-31 while CD82 was re-expressed in PC3 to acquire differentially-expressed genes in the respective cell line.RESULTS: Differentially-expressed genes with a P < 0.05 were identified in 3 data sets: PrEC-31 (+CD82) vs PrEC-31(-CD82), PC3-57 (+CD82) vs. PC3-5 V (-CD82), and PC3-29 (+CD82) vs. PC3-5 V (-CD82). Top 25 gene lists did not show overlap within the data sets, except (CALB1) the calcium binding protein calbindin 1 which was significantly up-regulated (2.8 log fold change) in PrEC-31 and PC3-29 cells that expressed CD82. Other most significantly up-regulated genes included serine peptidase inhibitor kazal type 1 (SPINK1) and polypeptide N-acetyl galactosaminyl transferase 14 (GALNT14) and most down-regulated genes included C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 14 (CXCL14), urotensin 2 (UTS2D), and fibroblast growth factor 13 (FGF13). Pathways related with cell proliferation and angiogenesis, migration and invasion, cell death, cell cycle, signal transduction, and metabolism were highly enriched in cells that lack CD82 expression. Expression of two mutually inclusive genes in top 100 gene lists of all data sets, runt-related transcription factor (RUNX3) and trefoil factor 3 (TFF3), could be validated with qRT-PCR.CONCLUSION: Identification of genes and pathways regulated by CD82 in this study may provide additional insights into the role that CD82 plays in prostate tumor progression and metastasis, as well as identify potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Intratumor heterogeneity of colorectal cancers (CRCs) is manifested both at the genomic and epigenomic levels. Early genetic aberrations in carcinogenesis are clonal and present throughout the tumors, but less is known about the heterogeneity of the epigenetic CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP). CIMP characterizes a subgroup of CRCs thought to originate from specific precursor lesions, and it is defined by widespread DNA methylation within promoter regions. In this work, we investigated CIMP in two to four multiregional samples from 30 primary tumors (n = 86 samples) using the consensus Weisenberger gene panel (CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3 and SOCS1). Twenty-nine of 30 tumors (97%) showed concordant CIMP status in all samples, and percent methylated reference (PMR) values of all five markers had higher intertumor than intratumor variation (P value = 1.5e-09). However, a third of the CIMP+ tumors exhibited discrepancies in methylation status in at least one of the five gene markers. To conclude, CIMP status was consistent within primary CRCs, and it is likely a clonal phenotype. However, spatial discordances of the individual genes suggest that large-scale analysis of multiregional samples could be of interest for identifying CIMP markers that are robust to intratumor heterogeneity.
Susceptibility to primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is in part genetically determined. In our previous PBC genome-wide association study (GWAS) in 1118 Han Chinese PBC and 4036 controls, we noted that multiple SNPs in the runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) regions showed a nominally significant association. The tag SNP rs7529070 was genotyped using a TaqMan assay in a separately collected 1435 PBC and 3205 controls. A meta-analysis with a combined 2553 PBC and 7241 controls showed that rs7529070 is still nominally associated with PBC (p = 1.7 × 10-4, odds ratio (OR) = 1.18, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.08-1.28). Further analysis indicated that the risk allele of rs7529070 (G allele) is in complete linkage disequilibrium (LD) (r2 = 1) with the G allele of rs4648889, which is known to be associated with increased RUNX3 expression. Bioinformatic analysis with existing expression data showed that the expression of RUNX3 is significantly increased in PBC patients (p = 0.001) and the expression level is correlated with disease severity. Consistently, we also found significantly increased RUNX3 expression (p < 0.01) in the livers of dnTGFβRII mice (a PBC mouse model). This study suggests that the RUNX3 locus may associate with PBC in Han Chinese.
Currently, clinicians rely on clinical nomograms to stratify progression risk at the time of diagnosis in patients with prostate cancer (CaP). However, these tools may not accurately distinguish aggressive potential in low-grade CaP. The current study determined the diagnostic potential of 3 molecular markers (ROCK1, RUNX3, and miR-301a) in terms of their ability to identify which low-grade tumors are likely to progress. Real-time PCR and immunohistochemical analysis were used to assess ROCK1, RUNX3, and miR-301a expression profiles in 118 serum and needle biopsy specimens. Expressions of ROCK1 and miR-301a were found to be significantly higher in Gleason 6 and 7 CaP as compared to BPH, while an inverse trend was observed with RUNX3. Further, incorporation of all 3 molecular markers significantly improved clinical nomograms' diagnostic accuracy and correlated with disease progression. Hence, in conclusion, the inclusion of these 3 molecular markers identified aggressive phenotype and predicted disease progression in low-grade CaP tumors at the time of diagnosis.
Technologies to reprogram cell-type specification have revolutionized the fields of regenerative medicine and disease modeling. Currently, the selection of fate-determining factors for cell reprogramming applications is typically a laborious and low-throughput process. Therefore, we use high-throughput pooled CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) screens to systematically map human neuronal cell fate regulators. We utilize deactivated Cas9 (dCas9)-based gene activation to target 1,496 putative transcription factors (TFs) in the human genome. Using a reporter of neuronal commitment, we profile the neurogenic activity of these factors in human pluripotent stem cells (PSCs), leading to a curated set of pro-neuronal factors. Activation of pairs of TFs reveals neuronal cofactors, including E2F7, RUNX3, and LHX8, that improve conversion efficiency, subtype specificity, and maturation of neuronal cell types. Finally, using multiplexed gene regulation with orthogonal CRISPR systems, we demonstrate improved neuronal differentiation with concurrent activation and repression of target genes, underscoring the power of CRISPR-based gene regulation for programming complex cellular phenotypes.
Comment in    Immunity. 2020 Dec 15;53(6):1126-1128.
PURPOSE: Glioblastoma is the most common and the deadliest brain cancer. The aim of this study was to analyze the impact of resveratrol and its five analogs: 3,4,4'-trimethoxy, 3,4,2'-trimethoxy, 3,4,2',4'-tetramethoxy, 3,4,2',6'-tetramethoxy and 3,4,2',4',6'-pentamethoxy-trans-stilbenes (MS) on human glioblastoma T98G cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Parallel Artificial Membrane Permeation Assay (PAMPA) was used for the prediction of blood-brain barrier penetration ability of the tested stilbenes (PAMPA-BBB). MTT test was applied to analyze the cytotoxicity of the compounds, whereas their ability to inhibit Wnt/β-catenin target genes expression was verified using qPCR. The potential DNA demethylating properties of the analyzed compounds were tested by Methylation-Sensitive High Resolution Melting (MS-HRM). Cell cycle distribution was tested using Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorting (FACS), whereas apoptosis was analyzed using FITC Annexin V/propidium iodide double staining assay and Western blot.RESULTS: High blood-brain barrier permeability coefficient was obtained for both resveratrol as well as methoxy-stilbenes. Their ability to downregulate the expression of Wnt/β-catenin pathway-related genes was confirmed. The 4'-methoxy substituted derivatives showed higher activity, whereas 3,4,4'-tri-MS was the most potent Wnt/β-catenin pathway inhibitor. None of the compounds affected DNA methylation level of MGMT, SFRP1, or RUNX3, despite inducing moderate changes in the level of expression of epigenetic modifiers DNMT3B and TET1-3. Importantly, treatment with 3,4,4'-tri-MS and 3,4,2',4'-tetra-MS led to cycle arrest in the S phase and induced apoptosis.CONCLUSIONS: Both, resveratrol, as well as its synthetic methoxy-derivatives, should be further studied as promising adjuvants in glioblastoma treatment.
The skin contains a population of tissue-resident memory T cells (Trm) that is thought to contribute to local tissue homeostasis and protection against environmental injuries. Although information about the regulation, survival program, and pathophysiological roles of Trm has been obtained from murine studies, little is known about the biology of human cutaneous Trm Here, we showed that host-derived CD69+ αβ memory T cell clones in the epidermis and dermis remain stable and functionally competent for at least 10 years in patients with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed low expression of genes encoding tissue egress molecules by long-term persisting Trm in the skin, whereas tissue retention molecules and stem cell markers were displayed by Trm The transcription factor RUNX3 and the surface molecule galectin-3 were preferentially expressed by host T cells at the RNA and protein levels, suggesting two new markers for human skin Trm Furthermore, skin lesions from patients developing graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) showed a large number of cytokine-producing host-derived Trm, suggesting a contribution of these cells to the pathogenesis of GVHD. Together, our studies highlighted the relationship between the local human skin environment and long-term persisting Trm, which differs from murine skin. Our results also indicated that local tissue inflammation occurs through host-derived Trm after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.
Negative regulation of antitumor T-cell-immune responses facilitates tumor-immune escape. Here, we show that deletion of CD147, a type I transmembrane molecule, in T cells, strongly limits in vivo tumor growth of mouse melanoma and lung cancer in a CD8+ T-cell-dependent manner. In mouse tumor models, CD147 expression was upregulated on CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and CD147 was coexpressed with two immune-checkpoint molecules, Tim-3 and PD-1. Mining publicly available gene-profiling data for CD8+ TILs in tumor biopsies from metastatic melanoma patients showed a higher level of CD147 expression in exhausted CD8+ TILs than in other subsets of CD8+ TILs, along with expression of PD-1 and TIM-3. Additionally, CD147 deletion increased the abundance of TILs, cytotoxic effector function of CD8+ T cells, and frequency of PD-1+ CD8+ TILs, and partly reversed the dysfunctional status of PD-1+Tim-3+CD8+ TILs. The cytotoxic transcription factors Runx3 and T-bet mediation enhanced antitumor responses by CD147-/- CD8+ T cells. Moreover, CD147 deletion in T cells increased the frequency of TRM-like cells and the expression of the T-cell chemokines CXCL9 and CXCL10 in the tumor microenvironment. Analysis of tumor tissue samples from patients with non-small-cell lung cancer showed negative correlations between CD147 expression on CD8+ TILs and the abundance of CD8+ TILs, histological grade of the tumor tissue samples, and survival of patients with advanced tumors. Altogether, we found a novel function of CD147 as a negative regulator of antitumor responses mediated by CD8+ TILs and identified CD147 as a potential target for cancer immunotherapy.
At early stages of carcinogenesis, the regulatory regions of some tumor suppressor genes become aberrantly methylated at RCGY sites, which are substrates of DNA methyltransferase Dnmt3. Identification of aberrantly methylated sites in tumor DNA is considered to be the first step in the development of epigenetic PCR test systems for early diagnosis of cancer. Recently, we have developed a GLAD-PCR assay, a method for detecting the R(5mC)GY site in the genome position of interest even at significant excess of DNA molecules with a non-methylated RCGY site in this location. The aim of the present work is to use the GLAD-PCR assay to detect the aberrantly methylated R(5mC)GY sites in the regulatory regions of tumor suppressor genes (brinp1, bves, cacna2d3, cdh11, cpeb1, epha7, fgf2, galr1, gata4, hopx, hs3st2, irx1, lrrc3b, pcdh10, rprm, runx3, sfrp2, sox17, tcf21, tfpi2, wnt5a, zfp82, and znf331) in DNA samples obtained from gastric cancer (GC) tissues. The study of the DNA samples derived from 29 tumor and 25 normal gastric tissue samples demonstrated a high diagnostic potential of the selected RCGY sites in the regulatory regions of the irx1, cacna2d3, and epha7 genes; the total indices of sensitivity and specificity for GC detection being 96.6% and 100%, respectively.
Keloid is an extremely common and often overlooked benign neoplastic disease, but its consequences should not be underestimated. Therefore, a deep exploration of the pathological mechanism of keloid becomes very essential. After 22 samples were collected from each patient's keloid tissues and normal skin tissues, circ_0008450 and Runx3 expression was tested by qRT-PCR. When primary human keratinized epithelial cells were transfected by sh-circ_0008450 or sh-Runx3, cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration, and EMT process were assessed by CCK-8, BrdU assay, apoptosis assay, migration assay, and Western blot. Finally, transfection was performed to explore the effect of circ_0008450 on the TGF-β/Smad signal pathway by adopting western blot. Circ_0008450 was highly expressed in keratinized epithelial tissues. After the transfection of sh-circ_0008450 into primary human keratinized epithelial cells, cell proliferation, migration, and EMT process were inhibited, and apoptosis was stimulated. Moreover, circ_0008450 silence-induced above changes were partly reversed by transfecting sh-Runx3. In addition, transfecting sh-circ_0008450 could repress TGF-β/Smad pathway, while transfecting sh-Runx3 activated the above pathway. Circ_0008450 down-regulated Runx3 to promote the proliferation and EMT process of human keratinized epithelial cells. This discovery may be related to the activation of the TGF-β/Smad pathway.
Erratum in    Cancer Lett. 2021 Jun 28;508:73-75.
Inactivation of tumor suppressor Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) plays an important role during early tumorigenesis. However, posttranslational modifications (PTM)-based mechanism for the inactivation of RUNX3 under hypoxia is still not fully understood. Here, we demonstrate a mechanism that G9a, lysine-specific methyltransferase (KMT), modulates RUNX3 through PTM under hypoxia. Hypoxia significantly increased G9a protein level and G9a interacted with RUNX3 Runt domain, which led to increased methylation of RUNX3 at K129 and K171. This methylation inactivated transactivation activity of RUNX3 by reducing interactions with CBFβ and p300 cofactors, as well as reducing acetylation of RUNX3 by p300, which is involved in nucleocytoplasmic transport by importin-α1. G9a-mediated methylation of RUNX3 under hypoxia promotes cancer cell proliferation by increasing cell cycle or cell division, while suppresses immune response and apoptosis, thereby promoting tumor growth during early tumorigenesis. Our results demonstrate the molecular mechanism of RUNX3 inactivation by G9a-mediated methylation for cell proliferation and antiapoptosis under hypoxia, which can be a therapeutic or preventive target to control tumor growth during early tumorigenesis.
K-RAS is frequently mutated in human lung adenocarcinomas (ADCs), and the p53 pathway plays a central role in cellular defense against oncogenic K-RAS mutation. However, in mouse lung cancer models, oncogenic K-RAS mutation alone can induce ADCs without p53 mutation, and loss of p53 does not have a significant impact on early K-RAS-induced lung tumorigenesis. These results raise the question of how K-RAS-activated cells evade oncogene surveillance mechanisms and develop into lung ADCs. RUNX3 plays a key role at the restriction (R)-point, which governs multiple tumor suppressor pathways including the p14ARF-p53 pathway. In this study, we found that K-RAS activation in a very limited number of cells, alone or in combination with p53 inactivation, failed to induce any pathologic lesions for up to 1 year. By contrast, when Runx3 was inactivated and K-RAS was activated by the same targeting method, lung ADCs and other tumors were rapidly induced. In a urethane-induced mouse lung tumor model that recapitulates the features of K-RAS-driven human lung tumors, Runx3 was inactivated in both adenomas (ADs) and ADCs, whereas K-RAS was activated only in ADCs. Together, these results demonstrate that the R-point-associated oncogene surveillance mechanism is abrogated by Runx3 inactivation in AD cells and these cells cannot defend against K-RAS activation, resulting in the transition from AD to ADC. Therefore, K-RAS-activated lung epithelial cells do not evade oncogene surveillance mechanisms; instead, they are selected if they occur in AD cells in which Runx3 has been inactivated.
Osteoporosis is one of the most prevailing orthopedic diseases that causes a heavy burden on public health. Given that bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) are of immense importance in osteoporosis development, it is necessary to expound the mechanisms underlying BMSC osteoblastic differentiation. Although mounting research works have investigated the role of small nucleolar RNA host gene 5 (SNHG5) in various diseases, elucidations on its function in osteoporosis are still scarce. It was observed that SNHG5 and RUNX family transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) were remarkably elevated during osteogenic differentiation of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs). Further, we disclosed that the silencing of SNHG5 suppressed osteogenic differentiation and induced apoptosis of hBMSCs. What's more, SNHG5 acted as a competing endogenous RNA to affect RUNX3 expression via competitively binding with microRNA (miR)-582-5p. RUNX3 was also confirmed to simulate the transcriptional activation of SNHG5. Finally, our findings manifested that the positive feedback loop of SNHG5/miR-582-5p/RUNX3 executed the promoting role in the development of osteoporosis, which shed light on specific molecular mechanism governing SNHG5 in osteogenic differentiation and apoptosis of hBMSCs and indicated that SNHG5 may represent a novel target for the improvement of osteoporosis therapy.
MiR-552 is a small non-coding RNA located on chromosome 1p34.3, and its expression level is significantly up-regulated in tissues or cells of various tumors. miR-552 can target multiple genes. These targeted genes play important regulatory roles in biological processes such as gene transcription and translation, cell cycle progression, cell proliferation, apoptosis, cell migration, and invasion. Besides, miR-552 may affect the efficacy of various anticancer drugs by targeting genes such as TP53 and RUNX3. This review summarizes the biological functions and clinical expressions of miR-552 in human cancer. Our goal is to explore the potential value of miR-552 in the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of human cancer.
Resident memory T (TRM) cells are a unique subset of CD8+ T cells that are present within certain tissues and do not recirculate through the blood. Long term memory establishment and maintenance are dependent on tissue population of memory T cells. They are characterized by dual CD69/CD103 positivity, and play a role in both response to viral infection and local cancer immunosurveillance. Human TRM cells demonstrate the increased expression of adhesion molecules to facilitate tissue retention, have reduced proliferation and produce both regulatory and immune responsive cytokines. TRM cell phenotype is often characterized by a distinct expression profile driven by Runx3, Blimp1, and Hobit transcription factors. The accumulation of TRM cells in tumors is associated with increased survival and response to immunotherapies, including anti-PD-1 and anti-CTLA-4. In this review, we explore potential mechanisms of TRM cell transformation and maintenance, as well as potential applications for the use of TRM cells in both the development of supportive therapies and establishing more accurate prognoses.
BACKGROUND: Human papillomavirus (HPV) etiology has become evident in head and neck cancers (HNCs) and HPV positivity showed a strong association with its malignant progression. Since aberrant DNA methylation is known to drive carcinogenesis and progression in HNCs, we investigated to determine target gene(s) associated with this modification.METHODS: We characterized epigenetic changes in tumor-related genes (TRGs) that are known to be associated with HNC development and its progression.RESULTS: The expression levels of 42 candidate HNC-associated genes were analyzed. Of these, 7 TGRs (CHFR, RARβ, GRB7, EREG, RUNX2, RUNX3, and SMG-1) showed decreased expressions in HPV-positive (+) HNC cells compared with HPV-negative (-) HNC cells. When gene expression levels were compared corresponding to the DNA methylation conditions, GRB7 and EREG showed significant differential expression between HPV+ and HPV- cells, which suggested these genes as primary targets of epigenetic regulation in HPV-induced carcinogenesis. Furthermore, treatment with a demethylation agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dc), caused restoration of EREG expression and was associated with hypomethylation of its promoter in HPV+ cells, while no changes was noted in HPV- cells. EREG promoter hypermethylation in HPV+ cells was confirmed using methylation-specific PCR (MS-PCR).CONCLUSION: We conclude that EREG is the target of epigenetic regulation in HPV+ HNCs and its suppressed expression through promoter hypermethylation is associated with the development of HPV-associated HNCs.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) episome is known to interact with the three-dimensional structure of the human genome in infected cells. However, the exact locations of these interactions and their potential functional consequences remain unclear. Recently, high-resolution chromatin conformation capture (Hi-C) assays in lymphoblastoid cells have become available, enabling us to precisely map the contacts between the EBV episome(s) and the human host genome. Using available Hi-C data at a 10-kb resolution, we have identified 15,000 reproducible contacts between EBV episome(s) and the human genome. These contacts are highly enriched in chromatin regions denoted by typical or super enhancers and active markers, including histone H3K27ac and H3K4me1. Additionally, these contacts are highly enriched at loci bound by host transcription factors that regulate B cell growth (e.g., IKZF1 and RUNX3), factors that enhance cell proliferation (e.g., HDGF), or factors that promote viral replication (e.g., NBS1 and NFIC). EBV contacts show nearly 2-fold enrichment in host regions bound by EBV nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA2) and EBNA3 transcription factors. Circular chromosome conformation capture followed by sequencing (4C-seq) using the EBV origin of plasmid replication (oriP) as a "bait" in lymphoblastoid cells further confirmed contacts with active chromatin regions. Collectively, our analysis supports interactions between EBV episome(s) and active regions of the human genome in lymphoblastoid cells.IMPORTANCE EBV is associated with ∼200,000 cancers each year. In vitro, EBV can transform primary human B lymphocytes into immortalized cell lines. EBV-encoded proteins, along with noncoding RNAs and microRNAs, hijack cellular proteins and pathways to control cell growth. EBV nuclear proteins usurp normal transcriptional programs to activate the expression of key oncogenes, including MYC, to provide a proliferation signal. EBV nuclear antigens also repress CDKN2A to suppress senescence. EBV membrane protein activates NF-κB to provide survival signals. EBV genomes are maintained by EBNA1, which tethers EBV episomes to the host chromosomes during mitosis. However, little is known about where EBV episomes are located in interphase cells. In interphase cells, EBV promoters drive the expression of latency genes, while oriP functions as an enhancer for these promoters. In this study, integrative analyses of published lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) Hi-C data and our 4C-seq experiments position EBV episomes to host genomes with active epigenetic marks. These contact points were significantly enriched for super enhancers. The close proximity of EBV episomes and the super enhancers that are enriched for transcription cofactors or mediators in lymphoblasts may benefit EBV gene expression, suggesting a novel mechanism of transcriptional activation.
The current study evaluated the outcome of dietary folate modulations on the expression of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) during developmental stages of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in a Wistar rat model. In addition to dietary folate modulations, male rats were administered diethylnitrosamine (DEN) intraperitoneally once a week upto 18 weeks to induce HCC. Serum folate levels were found to be decreased and increased in folate deficiency (FD) and folate-oversupplemented (FO) groups respectively when compared to folate normal (FN) rats. Apoptosis was observed in FD in fibrosis and HCC stages. mRNA expression analysis by RT-PCR of TSGs (DPT, p16, RUNX3, RASSF1A and SOCS1) and protein expression by western blot (RASSF1A, RUNX3 and p16) depicted differential expression in FD and FO in various stages of HCC development. Bisulfite sequencing for p16 and RASSF1A promoter was performed. The promoter region of p16 gene was hypermethylated at 7th and that of RASSF1A was hypomethylated at 10th CpG in cirrhotic category in FD rats. Hyper and hypomethylation at 10th and 24th CpG respectively in RASSF1A promoter was observed in HCC category in both FD and FO groups. All TSGs showed differential expression at transcript and protein level. Increased expression of DPT, RASSF1A, SOCS1 and decreased expression of RUNX3 could be playing role in HCC development in FD rats. Reduced expression of RUNX3, RASSF1A and SOCS1 in HCC category was demonstrated in FO rats. Thus, the studied TSGs are differentially expressed with dietary folate modulations during the development of HCC in DEN-treated rat model and the promoter methylation might be a contributing mechanism under these conditions.
Aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRs) has been reported in various types of cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role and underlying molecular mechanism of miR‑130a‑3p in cervical cancer (CC). The expression of miR‑130a‑3p in CC tissues and cell lines (CaSki and SiHa) was measured via reverse transcription‑quantitative PCR. SiHa and CaSki cells were transfected with miR‑130a‑3p mimics and a miR‑130a‑3p inhibitor, respectively. The proliferation, apoptosis and migration and invasion abilities of CC cells were then measured using MTT, flow cytometry, wound‑healing and Transwell assays, respectively. TargetScan and dual‑luciferase reporter gene assays were performed to analyze the association between miR‑130a‑3p and its predicted target gene Runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3). In addition, a xenograft tumor model was established in mice to evaluate the impact of miR‑130a‑3p on tumor growth in vivo. The expression of miR‑130a‑3p was markedly upregulated in CC tissues and cell lines compared with normal tissues and cells. Transfection with miR‑130a‑3p mimics significantly promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion, and inhibited the apoptosis of SiHa cells. Treatment of CaSki cells with a miR‑130a‑3p inhibitor resulted in opposite effects to those of miR‑130a‑3p mimics. RUNX3 was identified as the target gene of miR‑130a‑3p, and overexpression of RUNX3 eliminated the tumor‑promoting effect of miR‑130a‑3p mimics on CC cells. Overexpression of miR‑130a‑3p also promoted tumor growth in mice. In conclusion, miR‑130a‑3p promoted proliferation, migration and invasion, and inhibited the apoptosis of CC cells via targeting RUNX3, suggesting a novel treatment target for CC.
BACKGROUND: Runt related transcription factor3 (RUNX3) is considered as a tumor suppressor gene (TSG) that functions through the TGF-β dependent apoptosis. Promoter methylation of the CpG islands of RUNX3 and overexpression of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) has been suggested to downregulate RUNX3 in cancer.METHODS: Here, we studied the expression of RUNX3 and EZH2 in 58 esophageal tumors along with paired adjacent normal tissue. mRNA levels, protein expressions and cellular localizations of EZH2 and RUNX3 were analyzed using real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively. DNA methylation was further assessed by the methylation specific-PCR.RESULTS: Compared to normal tissue, a significant increase in expression of RUNX3 mRNA in 31/57 patient's tumor tissue (p < 0.04) was observed. The expression of EZH2 was found to be upregulated compared to normal, and a significant positive correlation between EZH2 and RUNX3 expression was observed (p = 0.002). 22 of the 27 unmethylated cases at the promoter region of the RUNX3 had elevated RUNX3 protein expression (p < 0.001).CONCLUSION: The data presented in this study provide new insights into the biology of RUNX3 and highlights the need to revisit our current understanding of the role of RUNX3 in cancer.
INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects and mechanisms of the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) MT1JP on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in vitro.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty pairs of tumor and adjacent normal tissues were collected from HCC patients. Tissue pathology and MT1JP expression were evaluated by hematoxylin and eosin staining and in situ hybridization (ISH), respectively. The correlation between MT1JP and HCC prognosis was investigated. MTT assays, cloning, flow cytometry, transwell assays, and wound-healing assays were used to evaluate the effects of MT1JP on HCC cell lines. RT-qPCR and Western blot were used to measure the relative mRNA and protein expression levels.RESULTS: The expression of MT1JP was downregulated in HCC tumor tissues compared with that in adjacent normal tissues, while the percent survival was significantly greater in the high MT1JP expression group than in the low MT1JP expression group (P=0.0238). In vitro, overexpression of MT1JP suppressed the proliferation, invasion, and migration, reduced colony cell number, increased cell apoptosis, and induced G1-phase cell cycle arrest in Bel-7402 and Huh-7 cells. Meanwhile, the mRNA and protein expression levels of RUNX3 and P21 were significantly upregulated, whereas those of MMP2 and MMP9 were significantly downregulated, in Bel-7402 and Huh-7 cells overexpressing MT1JP (all P<0.001).CONCLUSION: LncRNA MT1JP may function as a tumor suppressor in HCC. Overexpression of MT1JP suppressed HCC cell biological activities through the regulation of RUNX3.
BACKGROUND: Crawling-type adenocarcinoma (CRA) is an important gastric cancer (GC) subtype that exhibits a specific histological pattern and has characteristic clinicopathological findings. Despite its characteristic histology, little is known about the molecular characteristics of CRA.METHODS: We examined 177 GC cases, including 51 cases of CRA and 126 cases having conventional differentiated adenocarcinomas (CDAs). Results for immunohistochemistry (mucin phenotype; Muc5AC, Muc6, Muc2 and CD10, CDX-2, MLH-1, p53 and β-catenin), mutation analysis (TP53, KRAS and BRAF), microsatellite instability (BAT25, BAT26, D2S123, D5S346 and D17S250), DNA methylation status by a two-panel method (RUNX3, MINT31, LOX, NEUROG1, ELMO1 and THBD), MLH-1 promoter methylation, and allelic imbalance (AI; 1p, 3p, 4p, 5q, 8p, 9p, 13q, TP53, 18q and 22q) were examined.RESULTS: CRAs were more likely to occur in the middle third of the stomach, in younger patients and to be macroscopically depressed. Nuclear accumulation of β-catenin and loss of MLH-1 expression were less frequent among CRA cases compared to CDA cases. At a molecular level, CRA is often characterized by the deletion mutation c.529_546 (18-base pair deletion at codon 177-182 in exon 5) in the TP53 gene (10 cases). Although the low methylation epigenotype was significantly more frequent for CRAs compared to CDAs, multiple AIs were more often seen in CRAs relative to CDAs.CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that TP53 mutations, particularly c.529_546del, and multiple AIs are closely associated with CRA carcinogenesis. Our results suggest that CRA is an independent entity of GC in terms of clinicopathologic and molecular findings.
Evidence for transgenerational inheritance of epigenetic information in vertebrates is scarce. Aberrant patterns of DNA methylation in gametes may set the stage for transmission into future generations. Here, we describe a viable hypomorphic allele of dnmt1 in zebrafish that causes widespread demethylation of CpG dinucleotides in sperm and somatic tissues. We find that homozygous mutants are essentially normal, with the exception of drastically impaired lymphopoiesis, affecting both larval and adult phases of T cell development. The phenotype of impaired larval (but not adult) T cell development is transmitted to subsequent generations by genotypically wildtype fish. We further find that about 200 differentially methylated regions in sperm DNA of transmitting and non-transmitting males, including hypermethylated sites associated with runx3 and rptor genes, whose reduced activities are associated with impaired larval T cell development. Our results indicate a particular sensitivity of larval T cell development to transgenerationally inherited epimutations.
Squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity and oropharynx is the sixth most common type of cancer in the world. During tumorigenesis, gene promoter hypermethylation is considered an important mechanism of transcription silencing of tumor suppressor genes, such as DAPK, MGMT and RUNX3. These genes participate in signaling pathways related to apoptosis, DNA repair and proliferation whose loss of expression is possibly associated with cancer development and progression. In order to investigate associations between hypermethylation and clinicopathological and prognostic parameters, promoter methylation was evaluated in 72 HPV negative oral and oropharyngeal tumors using methylation-specific PCR. Hypermethylation frequencies found for DAPK, MGMT and RUNX3 were 38.88%, 19.44% and 1.38% respectively. Patients with MGMT hypermethylation had a better 2-year overall survival compared to patients without methylation. Being MGMT a repair gene for alkylating agents, it could be a biomarker of treatment response for patients who are candidates for cisplatin chemotherapy, predicting drug resistance. In view of the considerable levels of hypermethylation in cancer cells and, for MGMT, its prognostic relevance, DAPK and MGMT show potential as epigenetic markers, in a way that additional studies may test its viability and efficacy in clinical management.
Patients with precancerous gastric conditions are at a high risk for gastric carcinoma. The Chinese medicine Weifuchun (WFC) is used in treating chronic superficial gastritis and in postoperative adjuvant treatment of gastric cancer. Both monotherapy and combination therapy of WFC with other drugs can result in a favorable therapeutic outcome. WFC can dramatically improve clinical outcomes in patients with gastric precancerous lesions by targeting multiple pathways including pathways involved in the pharmacological action of Radix Ginseng Rubra (red ginseng), Rabdosia amethystoides, and fried Fructus Aurantii, including regulation of NF-κB, RUNX3/TGF-beta/Smad, Hedgehog (Hh) and Wnt signaling pathways, modulation of the expression of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes, and indirect inhibition of Helicobacter pylori (Hp) by maintaining gastric microbial ecosystem. In this review, we will discuss the clinical efficacy and therapeutic regimen of WFC for gastric precancerous lesions and the molecular mechanisms involved. This review will highlight WFC-based therapeutic strategies in disrupting progress to gastric cancer and provide more information on the pharmacological mechanisms of WFC and its clinical application for the treatment of precancerous gastric lesions.
Somatic sensation is defined by the existence of a diversity of primary sensory neurons with unique biological features and response profiles to external and internal stimuli. However, there is no coherent picture about how this diversity of cell states is transcriptionally generated. Here, we use deep single cell analysis to resolve fate splits and molecular biasing processes during sensory neurogenesis in mice. Our results identify a complex series of successive and specific transcriptional changes in post-mitotic neurons that delineate hierarchical regulatory states leading to the generation of the main sensory neuron classes. In addition, our analysis identifies previously undetected early gene modules expressed long before fate determination although being clearly associated with defined sensory subtypes. Overall, the early diversity of sensory neurons is generated through successive bi-potential intermediates in which synchronization of relevant gene modules and concurrent repression of competing fate programs precede cell fate stabilization and final commitment.
During thymic development and upon peripheral activation, T cells undergo extensive phenotypic and functional changes coordinated by lineage-specific developmental programs. To characterize the regulatory landscape controlling T cell identity, we perform a wide epigenomic and transcriptional analysis of mouse thymocytes and naive CD4 differentiated T helper cells. Our investigations reveal a dynamic putative enhancer landscape, and we could validate many of the enhancers using the high-throughput CapStarr sequencing (CapStarr-seq) approach. We find that genes using multiple promoters display increased enhancer usage, suggesting that apparent "enhancer redundancy" might relate to isoform selection. Furthermore, we can show that two Runx3 promoters display long-range interactions with specific enhancers. Finally, our analyses suggest a novel function for the PRC2 complex in the control of alternative promoter usage. Altogether, our study has allowed for the mapping of an exhaustive set of active enhancers and provides new insights into their function and that of PRC2 in controlling promoter choice during T cell differentiation.
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University, Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, People's Republic of China.(2)Urumqi Blood Center, Urumqi, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, People's Republic of China.(#)Contributed equally
INTRODUCTION: Local DNA hypermethylation is a potential source of cancer biomarkers. While the evaluation of single gene methylation has limited value, their selected panel may provide better information.AIMS: This study aimed to analyze the promoter methylation level in a 7-gene panel in brain tumors and verifies the usefulness of methylation-sensitive high-resolution melting (MS-HRM) for this purpose.METHODS: Forty-six glioma samples and one non-neoplastic brain sample were analyzed by MS-HRM in terms of SFRP1, SFRP2, RUNX3, CBLN4, INA, MGMT, and RASSF1A promoter methylation. The results were correlated with patients' clinicopathological features.RESULTS: DNA methylation level of all analyzed genes was significantly higher in brain tumor samples as compared to non-neoplastic brain and commercial, unmethylated DNA control. RASSF1A was the most frequently methylated gene, with statistically significant differences depending on the tumor WHO grade. Higher MGMT methylation levels were observed in females, whereas the levels of SFRP1 and INA promoter methylation significantly increased with patients' age. A positive correlation of promoter methylation levels was observed between pairs of genes, for example, CBLN4 and INA or MGMT and RASSF1A.CONCLUSIONS: Our 7-gene panel of promoter methylation can be helpful in brain tumor diagnosis or characterization, and MS-HRM is a suitable method for its analysis.
Cancer prevails in various gastrointestinal (GI) organs, such as esophagus, stomach, and colon. However, the small intestine has an extremely low cancer risk. It is interesting to investigate the molecular cues that could explain the significant difference in cancer incidence rates among different GI tissues. Using several large-scale normal and cancer tissue genomics datasets, we compared the gene expression profiling between small intestine and other GI tissues and between GI cancers and normal tissues. We identified 17 tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) which showed significantly higher expression levels in small intestine than in other GI tissues and significantly lower expression levels in GI cancers than in normal tissues. These TSGs were mainly involved in metabolism, immune, and cell growth signaling-associated pathways. Many TSGs had a positive expression correlation with survival prognosis in various cancers, confirming their tumor suppressive function. We demonstrated that the downregulation of many TSGs was associated with their hypermethylation in cancer. Moreover, we showed that the expression of many TSGs inversely correlated with tumor purity and positively correlated with antitumor immune response in various cancers, suggesting that these TSGs may exert their tumor suppressive function by promoting antitumor immunity. Furthermore, we identified a transcriptional regulatory network of the TSGs and their master transcriptional regulators (MTRs). Many of MTRs have been recognized as tumor suppressors, such as HNF4A, ZBTB7A, p53, and RUNX3. The TSGs could provide new molecular cues associated with tumorigenesis and tumor development and have potential clinical implications for cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment.
BACKGROUND: Super-enhancers (SEs) play a crucial role in cancer, which is often associate with activated oncogenes. However, little is known about how SEs facilitate tumour suppression. Individuals with Down syndrome exhibit a remarkably reduced incidence of breast cancer (BC), moving the search for tumor suppressor genes on human chromosome 21 (HSA21). In this study, we aim to identify and explore potential mechanisms by which SEs are established for tumor suppressor RCAN1.4 on HSA21 in BC.METHODS: In silico analysis and immunohistochemical staining were used to assess the expression and clinical relevance of RCAN1.4 and RUNX3 in BC. Function experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of RCAN1.4 on the malignancy of breast carcinoma in vitro and in vivo. ChIP-seq data analysis, ChIP-qPCR, double-CRISPR genome editing, and luciferase reporter assay were utilized to confirm RUNX3 was involved in regulating RCAN1.4-associated SE in BC. The clinical value of co-expression of RCAN1.4 and RUNX3 was evaluated in BC patients.RESULTS: Here, we characterized RCAN1.4 as a potential tumour suppressor in BC. RCAN1.4 loss promoted tumour metastasis to bone and brain, and its overexpression inhibited tumour growth by blocking the calcineurin-NFATc1 pathway. Unexpectedly, we found RCAN1.4 expression was driven by a ~ 23 kb-long SE. RCAN1.4-SEdistal was sensitive to BRD4 inhibition, and its deletion decreased RCAN1.4 expression by over 90% and induced the malignant phenotype of BC cells. We also discovered that the binding sites in the SE region of RCAN1.4 were enriched for consensus sequences of transcription factor RUNX3. Knockdown of RUNX3 repressed the luciferase activity and also decreased H3K27ac enrichment binding at the SE region of RCAN1.4. Furthermore, abnormal SE-driven RCAN1.4 expression mediated by RUNX3 loss could be physiologically significant and clinically relevant in BC patients. Notably, we established a prognostic model based on RCAN1.4 and RUNX3 co-expression that effectively predicted the overall survival in BC patients.CONCLUSIONS: These findings reveal an important role of SEs in facilitating tumour suppression in BC. Considering that the combination of low RCAN1.4 and low RUNX3 expression has worse prognosis, RUNX3-RCAN1.4 axis maybe a novel prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for BC patients.
Ulcerative colitis is a major risk factor that increases the occurrence of colorectal cancer. In colorectal cancer due to colitis, intestinal inflammation plays an important role which causes DNA damage. The aim of this study is to investigate the anticancer effect of coelomic fluid of Eisenia fetida (CFEF) and cetuximab combinations. Colitis associated colon cancer was induced in BALB/c mice by DSS/AOM. The mice were randomly divided into six groups: group 1 received vehicle (control), groups 2-6 received DSS/AOM, groups 3-5 received cetuximab + CFEF (30, 60, or 120 mg/kgBW), and group 6 received CFEF only. After the 12th week of treatments, the colon tissues were removed for histological examination and immune-fluorescence. Intestinal Epithelial Cells (CECs) were analyzed by flow cytometer. Administration of CFEF significantly decreased the severity of DSS/AOM-induced CAC in a dose-dependent manner. The combinations of CFEF-cetuximab were revealed by histological change. The CFEF significantly reduced the severity scores (P < 0.05). The combinations of CFEF-cetuximab significantly inhibited K-Ras and vimentin expressions, whereas the percentage of RUNX3 significantly increased in CECs. The increasing of RUNX3 could prevent EMT, so that it can decrease K-Ras and vimentin to suppressed cell invasion and migration by CFEF. Our results suggest that CFEF has the therapeutic potential to CAC.
The histone demethylase Jumonji domain-containing 1A (JMJD1A) is overexpressed in multiple cancers and promotes cancer progression. However, the role and mechanism of JMJD1A in gastric cancer (GC) remains poorly understood. Here, we found that JMJD1A could suppress GC cell proliferation and xenograft tumor growth. Using RNA sequencing, we identified runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) as a novel target gene of JMJD1A. Mechanistically, we identified that JMJD1A upregulated RUNX3 through co-activating Ets-1 and reducing the H3K9me1/2 levels at the RUNX3 promoter in GC cells. Functionally, JMJD1A inhibits the growth of GC cells in vivo, which is partially dependent on RUNX3. Moreover, JMJD1A expression was decreased in GC and low expression of JMJD1A was correlated with an aggressive phenotype and a poor prognosis in patients with GC. Importantly, JMJD1A expression was positively associated with RUNX3 expression in GC samples. These studies indicated that JMJD1A upregulates RUNX3 expression via co-activation of transcription factor Ets-1 to inhibit proliferation of GC cells. Our findings provide new insight into the mechanism by which JMJD1A regulates RUNX3 transcription and suggest that JMJD1A and/or RUNX3 may be used as a therapeutic intervention for GC.
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a common, chronic inflammatory disease with complex pathogenesis. In recent years, a number of susceptibility non-human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes of PsA have been revealed, which also act as important factors in the pathogenesis of PsA as well as HLA genes. By searching the databases National Center for Biotechnology Information, Google and PubMed, 37 articles are included and 50 susceptibility non-HLA genes for PsA are presented, such as IL23A, TNIP1, TYK2, STAT4, IL12B, RUNX3 and TRAF3IP2. In these non-HLA genes, some are common genes shared with other diseases, whereas most of these susceptibility genes are related to the pathogenesis of PsA by activation or inhibition of the signaling pathways. Several signaling pathways possibly implicated in the pathogenesis of PsA are introduced in this paper, including the 2 mainly signaling pathways, IL23/Th17 signaling pathway and NF-κB signaling pathway, and the other involved signaling pathways, such as JAK-STAT signaling pathway and MAPK signaling pathway.
Variegated expression of killer Ig-like receptors (KIR) in human NK cells is a stochastic process exclusive to subsets of mature NK cells and CD8+ T cells. Allele-specific KIR expression is maintained by DNA methylation within the proximal promoter regions. Because KIR genes are densely methylated in NK cell progenitors, there is an implied stage of human NK cell development in which DNA demethylation takes place to allow for active transcription. When and how this process occurs is unknown. In this study, we show that KIR proximal promoters are densely methylated in less mature CD56bright NK cells and are progressively demethylated in CD56dim NK cells as they mature and acquire KIR. We hypothesized that ten-eleven translocation (TET) enzymes, which oxidize 5mC on DNA could mediate KIR promoter demethylation. The catalytic efficiency of TET enzymes is known to be enhanced by ascorbic acid. We found that the addition of ascorbic acid to ex vivo culture of sorted CD56bright NK cells increased the frequency of KIR expression in a dose-dependent manner and facilitated demethylation of proximal promoters. A marked enrichment of the transcription factor Runx3 as well as TET2 and TET3 was observed within proximal KIR promoters in CD56bright NK cells cultured with ascorbic acid. Additionally, overexpression of TET3 and Runx3 promoted KIR expression in CD56bright NK cells and NK-92 cells. Our results show that KIR promoter demethylation can be induced in CD56bright, and this process is facilitated by ascorbic acid.
The loss of cancer-cell junctions and escape from the primary-tumor microenvironment are hallmarks of metastasis. A tight-junction protein, Claudin 1 (CLDN1), is a metastasis suppressor in lung adenocarcinoma. However, as a metastasis suppressor, the underlying molecular mechanisms of CLDN1 has not been well studied. Methods: The signaling pathway regulated by CLDN1 was analyzed by Metacore software and validated by immunoblots. The effect of the CLDN1-EPHB6-ERK-SLUG axis on the formation of cancer stem-like cells, drug resistance and metastasis were evaluated by sphere assay, aldefluor assay, flow cytometry, migration assay, cytotoxicity, soft agar assay, immunoprecipitation assay and xenograft experiments. Furthermore, the methylation-specific PCR, pyrosequencing assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation and reporter assay were used to study the epigenetic and RUNX3-mediated CLDN1 transcription. Finally, the molecular signatures of RUNX3/CLDN1/SLUG were used to evaluate the correlation with overall survival by using gene expression omnibus (GEO) data. Results: We demonstrated that CLDN1 repressed cancer progression via a feedback loop of the CLDN1-EPHB6-ERK1/2-SLUG axis, which repressed metastasis, drug resistance, and cancer stemness, indicating that CLDN1 acts as a metastasis suppressor. CLDN1 upregulated the cellular level of EPHB6 and enhanced its activation, resulting in suppression of ERK1/2 signaling. Interestingly, DNA hypermethylation of the CLDN1 promoter abrogated SLUG-mediated suppression of CLDN1 in low-metastatic cancer cells. In contrast, the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A or vorinostat facilitated CLDN1 expression in high-metastatic cancer cells and thus increased the efficacy of chemotherapy. Combined treatment with cisplatin and trichostatin A or vorinostat had a synergistic effect on cancer-cell death. Conclusions: This study revealed that DNA methylation maintains CLDN1 expression and then represses lung cancer progression via the CLDN1-EPHB6-ERK1/2-SLUG axis. Because CLDN1 enhances the efficacy of chemotherapy, CLDN1 is not only a prognostic marker but a predictive marker for lung adenocarcinoma patients who are good candidates for chemotherapy. Forced CLDN1 expression in low CLDN1-expressing lung adenocarcinoma will increase the chemotherapy response, providing a novel therapeutic strategy.
BACKGROUND: The runt-related transcription factor family (RUNXs) including RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 are key transcriptional regulators in normal hematopoiesis. RUNXs dysregulations caused by aberrant expression or mutation are frequently seen in various human cancers especially in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).OBJECTIVE: We systemically analyzed the expression of RUNXs and their relationship with clinic-pathological features and prognosis in AML patients.METHODS: Expression of RUNXs was analyzed between AML patients and normal controls from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) projects. Correlations between RUNXs expression and clinical features together with survival were further analyzed.RESULTS: All RUNXs expression in AML patients was significantly increased as compared with controls. RUNXs expression was found to be significantly associated with genetic abnormalities such as RUNX1 mutation, t(8;21) and inv(16)/t(16;16). By Kaplan-Meier analysis, only RUNX3 overexpression was associated with shorter overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) among non-M3 AML patients. Notably, in high RUNX3 expression groups, patients received hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) had markedly better OS and DFS than patients without HSCT among both all AML and non-M3 AML. In low RUNX3 expression groups, there were no significant differences in OS and DFS between HSCT and non-HSCT groups among both all AML and non-M3 AML. In addition, a total of 835 differentially expressed genes and 69 differentially expressed microRNAs were identified to be correlated with RUNX3 expression in AML.CONCLUSION: RUNXs overexpression was a frequent event in AML, and was closely associated with diverse genetic alterations. Moreover, RUNX3 expression may be associated with clinical outcome, and helpful for guiding treatment choice between HSCT and chemotherapy in AML.
We have previously observed that tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB) induces breast cancer metastasis by activating both the Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) and phosphatidylinositol-3-Kinase (PI3K)/AKT signaling pathways and inhibiting runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (KEAP1). These studies indicated that TrkB expression is crucial to the pathogenesis of breast cancer. However, how TrkB regulates bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling and tumor suppression is largely unknown. Herein, we report that TrkB is a key regulator of BMP-mediated tumor suppression. TrkB enhances the metastatic potential of cancer cells by promoting cell anchorage-independent growth, migration, and suppressing BMP-2-mediated growth inhibition. TrkB inhibits the BMP-mediated activation of SMAD family member 1 (SMAD1) by promoting the formation of the TrkB/BMP type II receptor complex and suppresses RUNX3 by depleting BMP receptor I (BMPRI) expression. In addition, the knockdown of TrkB restored the tumor-inhibitory effect of BMP-2 via the activation of SMAD1. Moreover, the TrkB kinase activity was required for its effect on BMP signaling. Our study identified a unique role of TrkB in the regulation of BMP-mediated growth inhibition and BMP-2-induced RUNX3 expression.
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are the main stromal cells in the tumour microenvironment (TME). We found that the distribution of CAFs was significantly increased with tumour progression and led to a poor prognosis. In vitro and in vivo assays revealed that CAFs enhanced colorectal cancer (CRC) metastasis. Based on extraction and identification of exosomes of CAFs and normal fibroblasts (NFs), CAFs-exo showed higher expression of miR-17-5p than NFs-exo and could deliver exosomal miR-17-5p from parental CAFs to CRC cells. Further exploration verified that miR-17-5p influenced CRC metastasis capacity and directly targeted 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of RUNX family transcription factor 3(RUNX3). Our findings further revealed that RUNX3 interacted with MYC proto-oncogene(MYC) and that both RUNX3 and MYC bound to the promoter of transforming growth factor beta1(TGF-β1) at base pairs 1005-1296, thereby activating the TGF-β signalling pathway and contributing to tumour progression. In addition, RUNX3/MYC/TGF-β1 signalling sustained autocrine TGF-β1 to activate CAFs, and activated CAFs released more exosomal miR-17-5p to CRC cells, forming a positive feedback loop for CRC progression. Taken together, these data provide a new understanding of the potential diagnostic value of exosomal miR-17-5p in CRC.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) play an essential regulatory role in multiple cancers. However, the role of a large number of circRNAs in gastric cancer (GC) is still unknown. Here, hsa_circ_0139996 (circREPS2), a novel circRNA that was significantly downregulated in GC, was selected for further investigation. circREPS2 was validated and analyzed by DNA sequencing and quantitative real-time PCR. The roles of circREPS2 in GC cells were verified by gain- and loss-of-function experiments. Bioinformatics analysis, luciferase reporter, RNA pull-down, and RNA immunoprecipitation assays were performed to evaluate the functional mechanism of circREPS2 on microRNA-558 (miR-558)/RUNX3/β-catenin axis in GC cells. In the present study, we found that circREPS2 was downregulated in GC tissues and cell lines. Low expression of circREPS2 was associated with a higher tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage, poor tumor differentiation, and larger tumor size in GC patients. Functionally, circREPS2 significantly inhibited GC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT) in vitro and tumorigenesis in vivo. Furthermore, our data demonstrated that circREPS2 acted as a miR-558 sponge and upregulated RUNX3 expression to inactivate β-catenin signaling in GC cells. In conclusion, circREPS2 suppresses the progression of GC via miR-558/RUNX3/β-catenin signaling and is a novel promising biomarker and target for GC treatment.
Lung toxicity is the main cause of the death from methamphetamine (MA) abuse, but its mechanism has remained unclear. The purpose of our study was to investigate if MA can induce epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and if RUNX3 is involved in oxidative EMT in MA-induced chronic lung injury. The rats were divided into the control group and MA group. Extracted lungs were used for morphological measurements and Western blot. The alveolar epithelial cells were cultured or transfected and then treated with MA or/and N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) followed by flow cytometry, Western blot, and immunohistochemistry. Chronic exposure to MA resulted in the lower growth ratio of weight, increased right ventricular index, thickened alveolar walls, and reduced number of alveolar sacs. Long-term administration with MA caused oxidative stress and pulmonary EMT. NAC increased RUNX3 and alleviated EMT. However, after knockdown of RUNX3, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were significantly upregulated, indicating that RUNX3 was closely related to oxidative stress. Knockdown of RUNX3 aggravated MA-induced EMT by activating RUNX3-dependent TGF-β signaling. Therefore, RUNX3 may be the key to oxidative EMT in methamphetamine-induced chronic lung injury.
Chondrocytes are the sole cell type present within cartilage, and play pivotal roles in controlling the formation and composition of health cartilage. Chondrocytes maintain cartilage homeostasis through proliferating, differentiating and synthesizing different types of extracellular matrices. Thus, the coordinated proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes are essential for cartilage growth, repair and the conversion from cartilage to bone during the processes of bone formation and fracture healing. Runx3, a transcription factor that belongs to the Runx family, is significantly upregulated at the onset of cartilage mineralization and regulates both early and late markers of chondrocyte maturation. Therefore, Runx3 may serve as an accelerator of chondrocyte differentiation and maturation. However, the underlying molecular mechanism of Runx3 in regulating chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation remains largely to be elucidated. In the present study, we used state-of-the-art RNA-seq technology combined with validation methods to investigate the effect of Runx3 overexpression or silencing on primary chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation, and demonstrated that Runx3 overexpression possibly inhibited chondrocyte proliferation but accelerated differentiation, whereas Runx3 silencing possibly promoted chondrocyte proliferation but suppressed differentiation. Furthermore, Runx3 overexpression possibly decreased the expression levels of Sox9 and its downstream genes via Sox9 cartilage-specific enhancers, and vice versa for Runx3 silencing.
Wnt/β-catenin signaling is one of the key cascades regulating embryogenesis and tissue homeostasis; it has also been intimately associated with carcinogenesis. This pathway is deregulated in several tumors, including colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and desmoid tumors. It has been shown that CTNNB1 exon 3 mutations are associated with an aggressive phenotype in several of these tumor types and may be associated with therapeutic tolerance. Desmoid tumors typically have a stable genome with β-catenin mutations as a main feature, making these tumors an ideal model to study the changes associated with different types of β-catenin mutations. Here, we show that the apoptosis mechanism is deregulated in β-catenin S45F mutants, resulting in decreased induction of apoptosis in these cells. Our findings also demonstrate that RUNX3 plays a pivotal role in the inhibition of apoptosis found in the β-catenin S45F mutants. Restoration of RUNX3 overcomes this inhibition in the S45F mutants, highlighting it as a potential therapeutic target for malignancies harboring this specific CTNNB1 mutation. While the regulatory effect of RUNX3 in β-catenin is already known, our results suggest the possibility of a feedback loop involving these two genes, with the CTNNB1 S45F mutation downregulating expression of RUNX3, thus providing additional possible novel therapeutic targets for tumors having deregulated Wnt/β-catenin signaling induced by this mutation.
BACKGROUND: C-Myc overexpression is associated with poor prognosis and aggressive progression of natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (NKTCL). Matrine, a main alkaloid of the traditional Chinese herb Sophora flavescens Ait, has been shown to inhibit cellular proliferation and induce apoptosis of various cancer cells. The present study investigated the effects and possible mechanisms of matrine inhibiting the growth of natural killer/T-cell lymphoma cells.METHODS: The effects of matrine on the proliferation, apoptosis and expression of apoptotic molecules, STAT3, LMP1, RUNX3, EZH2 and activation of CaMKIIγ/c-Myc pathway were examined in cultured NKTCL cell line NK92 cells.RESULTS: In cultured NK92 cells, matrine inhibited the proliferation in a dose and time dependent manner. The IC50 value of matrine was 1.71 mM for 72 h post exposure in NK92 cells. Matrine induced apoptosis with decreased Bcl-2 expression and the proteasome-dependent degradation of c-Myc protein in NK92 cells. c-Myc protein half-life in NK92 was reduced from 80.7 min to 33.4 min after matrine treatment, which meant the stability of c-Myc was decreased after matrine exposure. Furthermore, we found that matrine downregulated c-Myc phosphorylation at Ser62 together with the inhibition of CaMKIIγ, a key regulator of c-Myc protein in NKTCL. The downregulation of c-Myc transcription by matrine was mediated through LMP1 inhibition. We also observed that anti-proliferative activity of matrine was irrelevant to STAT3, RUNX3 and EZH2.CONCLUSIONS: The results of the present study indicated that matrine inhibits the growth of natural killer/T-cell lymphoma cells by modulating LMP1-c-Myc and CaMKIIγ-c-Myc signaling pathway.
Previous transcriptome analyses of brain samples provided several insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In this study, we aimed to re-investigate gene expression datasets from seven brain regions of patients with schizophrenia and healthy controls by adopting a unified approach. After adjustment for confounding factors, we detected gene expression changes in 2 out of 7 brain regions - the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and parietal cortex (PC). We found relatively small effect sizes, not exceeding absolute log fold changes of 1. Gene-set enrichment analysis revealed the following alterations: 1) down-regulation of GABAergic signaling (in DLPFC and PC); 2) up-regulation of interleukin-23 signaling together with up-regulation of transcription mediated by RUNX1 and RUNX3 as well as down-regulation of RUNX2 signaling (in DLPFC) and 3) up-regulation of genes associated with responses to metal ions and RUNX1 signaling (PC). The number of neurons was significantly lower and the number of astrocytes was significantly higher at both brain regions. In turn, the index of microglia was increased in DLPFC and decreased in PC. Finally, our unsupervised analysis demonstrated that cellular composition of the samples was a major confounding factor in the analysis of gene expression across all datasets. In conclusion, our analysis provides further evidence that small but significant changes in the expression of genes related to GABAergic signaling, brain development, neuroinflammation and responses to metal ions might be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Cell sorting techniques need to be used by future studies to dissect the effect of cellular content.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs) serve as competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) and indirectly regulate gene expression through shared microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the potential circRNAs functioning as ceRNAs in osteoporosis remain unclear. The bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) were isolated from ovariectomy (OVX) mice and controls. We systematically analyzed RNA-seq and miRNA-microarray data, miRNA-target interactions, and prominently coexpressed gene pairs to identify aberrantly expressed circRNAs, miRNAs, and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) between the OVX mice and controls. A total of 45 circRNAs, 22 miRNAs, and 548 mRNAs were significantly dysregulated (fold change > 1.5; p < 0.05). Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses were conducted for differentially expressed mRNAs, and subsequently a circRNA-associated ceRNA network involved in osteoporosis was constructed. We identified two ceRNA regulatory pathways in this osteoporosis mouse model-novel circRNA 0020/miR-206-3p/Nnmt and circRNA 3832/miR-3473e/Runx3, which were validated by real-time PCR. This is the first study to elucidate the circRNA-associated ceRNA network in OVX and control mice using deep RNA-seq and RNA-microarray analysis. The data further expanded the understanding of circRNA-associated ceRNA networks, and the regulatory functions of circRNAs, miRNAs and mRNAs in the pathogenesis and pathology of osteoporosis.
BACKGROUND: Kidney cancer usually shows no symptoms until the tumor is relatively large, and current drugs fail to stop the tumor recurrence. The transcriptional factor Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported to function as a tumor suppressor in many types of cancers.METHODS: Kidney cancer and adjacent normal tissues were collected from 12 patients to test the expression of RUNX3 by real-time quantitative PCR, immunoblotting, and immunohistochemistry. Promoter methylation status of RUNX3 was determined using methylation analysis from 103 patient samples. Kidney cancer cell lines and xenograft mouse model were used to investigate the promoter methylation and cancer progression through inhibitor treatment and loss/gain-of-function experiments.RESULTS: RUNX3 was significantly downregulated in kidney cancer tissues and cells, which could be elevated by higher methylation status at its promoter region. RUNX3 promoter methylation was positively correlated with poor prognosis of kidney cancer. RUNX3 loss-of-function promoted the cell proliferation, migration, and invasion of kidney cancer cells, in contrast, RUNX3 overexpression inhibited the cancer cell progression. This study provides the first instance of the effect of RUNX3 expression and its promoter methylation status on kidney cancer.CONCLUSION: Targeting RUNX3 pathway and its promoter methylation are potential therapeutic strategies to treat kidney cancer.
INTRODUCTION: The purpose of our research was to evaluate MT1JP in breast cancer.MATERIAL AND METHODS: For clinical purpose, tissues were collected, and a correlation analysis ofMT1JP and miRNA-214 gene expressions was conducted. Using an in vitro study, MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cell lines were used as research objects in our research. Colony, flow cytometry, TUNEL, transwell, adhesion and wound healing assay were used to discuss the biological activities of the cells. In an in vivo study, tumor weight and volume were measured, and cell apoptosis was measured by TUNEL assay. The relative mechanism's proteins were evaluated by Western blotting or immunohistochemistry assay.RESULTS: Compared with adjacent tissues, MT1JP and miRNA-214 gene expressions were significantly different (P<0.001, respectively). By in vitro and in vivo studies, the biological activities of the cells were significantly decreased in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cell lines with MT1JP overexpression. The relative mechanism was correlated with miRNA-214/RUNX3 axis.CONCLUSION: The overexpression of MT1JP suppresses the biological activities of breast cancer cells by regulation miRNA-214/RUNX3 axis in vitro and vivo study.
In humans, mutations in the PIEZO2 gene, which encodes for a mechanosensitive ion channel, were found to result in skeletal abnormalities including scoliosis and hip dysplasia. Here, we show in mice that loss of Piezo2 expression in the proprioceptive system recapitulates several human skeletal abnormalities. While loss of Piezo2 in chondrogenic or osteogenic lineages does not lead to human-like skeletal abnormalities, its loss in proprioceptive neurons leads to spine malalignment and hip dysplasia. To validate the non-autonomous role of proprioception in hip joint morphogenesis, we studied this process in mice mutant for proprioceptive system regulators Runx3 or Egr3. Loss of Runx3 in the peripheral nervous system, but not in skeletal lineages, leads to similar joint abnormalities, as does Egr3 loss of function. These findings expand the range of known regulatory roles of the proprioception system on the skeleton and provide a central component of the underlying molecular mechanism, namely Piezo2.
Anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)- negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) is an aggressive CD30-positive non- Hodgkin lymphoma. ALK-ALCL rarely manifests with extensive bone marrow and peripheral blood involvement (known as "leukemic phase"). A 54-year-old woman was diagnosed with ALK-ALCL in leukemic phase, characterized by an extremely poor prognosis. Lymphoma cells in this case showed chromosomal translocation 1p36.1- encoded RUNX3 and overexpression of its protein. She was refractory to CHOP and salvage chemotherapy. Fortunately, she achieved complete remission with three cycles of Brentuximab vedotin (BV) and underwent umbilical cord blood transplantation. However, she died due to treatment-related mortality on day 129. The autopsy findings showed no lymphoma cells. Treatment strategy for ALK-ALCL is controversial, but the efficacy of BV in CD30-positive peripheral T-cell lymphoma not only as salvage regimens, but also in first line, has been reported in recent years. BV may be an effective option for ALK-ALCL in leukemic phase.
BACKGROUND: The cancer risk in Barrett's oesophagus (BO) is difficult to estimate. Histologic dysplasia has strong predictive power, but can be missed by random biopsies. Other clinical parameters have limited utility for risk stratification. We aimed to assess whether a molecular biomarker panel on targeted biopsies can predict neoplastic progression of BO.METHODS: 203 patients with BO were tested at index endoscopy for 9 biomarkers (p53 and cyclin A expression; aneuploidy and tetraploidy; CDKN2A (p16), RUNX3 and HPP1 hypermethylation; 9p and 17p loss of heterozygosity) on autofluorescence-targeted biopsies and followed-up prospectively. Data comparing progressors to non-progressors were evaluated by univariate and multivariate analyses using survival curves, Cox-proportional hazards and logistic regression models.FINDINGS: 127 patients without high-grade dysplasia (HGD) or oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC) at index endoscopy were included, of which 42 had evidence of any histologic progression over time. Aneuploidy was the only predictor of progression from non-dysplastic BO (NDBO) to any grade of neoplasia (p = 0.013) and HGD/OAC (p = 0.002). Aberrant p53 expression correlated with risk of short-term progression within 12 months, with an odds ratio of 6.0 (95% CI: 3.1-11.2). A panel comprising aneuploidy and p53 had an area under the receiving operator characteristics curve of 0.68 (95% CI: 0.59-0.77) for prediction of any progression.INTERPRETATION: Aneuploidy is the only biomarker that predicts neoplastic progression of NDBO. Aberrant p53 expression suggests prevalent dysplasia, which might have been missed by random biopsies, and warrants early follow up.
Background and aims: Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) with colonic involvement increases colorectal cancer risk. However, the distinction between IBD related and sporadic dysplasia in IBD patients is difficult. Some data favors the importance of abnormal DNA methylation in IBD-related carcinogenesis. We aimed to define methylation patterns in patients with colonic cancer or dysplasia diagnosis following an IBD diagnosis.Methods: Multicentric cross-sectional study-91 samples from colonic mucosa with/without dysplasia from 9 patients with IBD-related dysplasia/cancer and 26 patients with IBD and sporadic dysplasia/cancer were included. Methylation patterns of CpG islands in the promoter regions of 67 genes were studied by Methylation-specific Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification.Results: Mean age at IBD diagnosis: 42 ± 16 years;at dysplasia diagnosis: 56 ± 14 years. Twenty-ninepatients had ulcerative colitis. Twenty-five patients had at least 1 lesion endoscopically described as adenoma-like, 4 at least 1 non-adenoma like, 3 had cancer and 3 had dysplasia in flat mucosa. No patient had both adenoma-like and non-adenoma-like lesions. Patients with an IBD-related lesion were significantly younger at IBD diagnosis (p = .003) and at dysplasia/cancer diagnosis (p = .039). Promoter methylation of IGF2, RARB, ESR1, CHFR, CDH13, WT1, GATA5, WIF1genes was significantly associated to dysplasia/cancer; methylation of MSH6, TIMP3 was significantly associated to IBD-related dysplasia/cancer. Promoter methylation of MSH6, MSH3, RUNX3, CRABP1, TP73, RARB, CDH13, PAX5, WT1, THBS1, TP53, SFRP1, WIF1, APAF1, BCL2 genes was significantly associated to active IBD.Conclusions: Methylation analysis, namely of MSH6, may contribute to the classification of dysplastic lesions in IBD- to be further tested in prospective studies.
Mice deficient in the transcription factor Runx3 develop a multitude of immune system defects, including early onset colitis. This paper demonstrates that Runx3 is expressed in colonic mononuclear phagocytes (MNP), including resident macrophages (RM) and dendritic cell subsets (cDC2). Runx3 deletion in MNP causes early onset colitis due to their impaired maturation. Mechanistically, the resulting MNP subset imbalance leads to up-regulation of pro-inflammatory genes as occurs in IL10R-deficient RM. In addition, RM and cDC2 display a marked decrease in expression of anti-inflammatory/TGF β-regulated genes and β-catenin signaling associated genes, respectively. MNP transcriptome and ChIP-seq data analysis suggest that a significant fraction of genes affected by Runx3 loss are direct Runx3 targets. Collectively, Runx3 imposes intestinal immune tolerance by regulating maturation of colonic anti-inflammatory MNP, befitting the identification of RUNX3 as a genome-wide associated risk gene for various immune-related diseases in humans, including gastrointestinal tract diseases such as Crohn's disease and celiac.
BACKGROUND: Dysregulated microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) directly modulate the biological functions of gastric cancer (GC) cells and contribute to the initiation and progression of GC. MiR-17-5p and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) have been reported to be related to GC progression; however, the specific interaction between miR-17-5p and RUNX3 in GC require further investigation.METHODS: Western blotting, real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to study the expression level of miR-17-5p and RUNX3 in gastric cancer tissues and plasma. The biological function of miR-17-5p was examined by measuring cell proliferation, apoptosis and cell invasion in vitro; the target gene of miR17-5p was identified by luciferase reporter assays, RNA Binding protein immunoprecipitation (RIP) and western blotting. In vivo animal study was conducted to confirm the role of miR-17-5p during tumorigensis of gastric cancer.RESULTS: This study showed that miR17-5p was upregulated in the plasma and tissues of patients with GC, while RUNX3 was downregulated in GC tissues. Functional experiments indicated that miR-17-5p mimics promoted the proliferation and invasion of GC via suppressing apoptosis in vitro. Furthermore, bioinformatics prediction, luciferase reporter assays, reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays, RIP and western blotting analysis demonstrated that RUNX3 was a direct target gene of miR-17-5p in GC. In addition, overexpression of RUNX3 suppressed the proliferation and invasiveness of GC cells. In vivo data indicated miR-17-5p agomir significantly promoted tumor growth. In contrast, miR-17-5p antagomir notably decreased tumor volume compared with control group.CONCLUSIONS: MiR-17-5p promoted the progression of GC via directly targeting RUNX3, suggesting that miR-17-5p and RUNX3 could be considered as diagnostic and therapeutic targets for patients with GC.
BACKGROUND: Most of Gastric Cancer (GC) patients are diagnosed at an advanced stage with poor prognosis. Hypermethylations of several tumor suppressor genes in cell-free DNA of GC patients have been previously reported. In this study, an attempt was made to investigate the methylation status of P16, RASSF1A, RPRM, and RUNX3 and their potentials for early diagnosis of GC.METHODS: Methylation status of the four tumor suppressor genes in 96 plasma samples from histopathologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma patients (Stage I-IV) and 88 healthy controls was determined using methylation-specific PCR method. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was performed and Area Under the Curve (AUC) was calculated. Two tailed p<0.05 were considered statistically significant.RESULTS: Methylated P16, RASSF1A, RPRM, and RUNX3 were significantly higher in the GC patients (41.7, 33.3, 66.7, and 58.3%) compared to the controls (15.9, 0.0, 6.8, and 4.5%), respectively (p<0.001). Stratification of patients showed that RPRM (AUC: 0.70, Sensitivity: 0.47, Specificity: 0.93, and p<0.001) and RUNX3 (AUC: 0.77, Sensitivity: 0.59, Specificity: 0.95, and p<0.001) had the highest performances in detection of early-stage (I+II) GC. The combined methylation of RPRM and RUNX3 in detection of early-stage GC had a higher AUC of 0.88 (SE=0.042; 95% CI:0.793-0.957; p<0.001), higher sensitivity of 0.82 and reduced specificity of 0.89.CONCLUSION: Methylation analysis of RPRM and RUNX3 in circulating cell free-DNA of plasma could be suggested as a potential biomarker for detection of GC in early-stages.
CD4/CD8 T-cell lineage differentiation is a key process in immune system development; however, a defined regulator(s) that converts the signal from T-cell receptor and co-receptor complexes into lineage differentiation remains unclear. Here, we show that Twist2 is a critical factor in CD4/CD8 thymocyte differentiation. Twist2 expression is differentially regulated by T-cell receptor signaling, leading to differentiation into the CD4 or CD8 lineage. Forced Twist2 expression perturbed CD4+ thymocyte differentiation while enhancing CD8+ thymocyte differentiation. Furthermore, Twist2 expression produced mature CD8+ thymocytes in B2m-/- mice, while its deficiency significantly impaired CD8+ cells in MHC class-II-/- and TCR transgenic mice, favoring CD8 T-cell differentiation. During CD8 lineage differentiation, Twist2 interacted with Runx3 to bind to the silencer region of the ThPOK locus, thereby blocking ThPOK expression. These findings indicate that Twist2 is a part of the transcription factor network controlling CD8 lineage differentiation.
BACKGROUND We aimed to assess the potential association of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene variants with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) susceptibility among Chinese Han people. MATERIAL AND METHODS Genotyping for RUNX3 variants was accomplished through polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) in 115 AS patients and 102 healthy controls. Genotypes distributions of the polymorphisms in controls was assessed for their deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). Moreover, odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (95%CI) was achieved using chi-square analysis to evaluate AS risk related to RUNX3 polymorphisms. Additionally, logistic regression analysis produced adjusted OR values. RESULTS Genotypes distribution of rs760805 and rs11249206 polymorphisms conformed to HWE in the control group (P>0.05). TT genotype of rs760805 appeared more frequently among AS cases than in controls (P=0.033), indicating its significant association with increased risk of AS onset (OR=2.309, 95%CI=1.069-4.892). The carriage of T allele in rs760805 also heightened AS incidence, in comparison to A allele (OR=1.578, 95%CI=1.075-2.316, P=0.020). Moreover, the carriage of AT+TT genotype in rs760805 and TT genotype in rs11249206 obviously increased risk of AS onset (OR=2.585, 95%CI=1.062-6.288). CONCLUSIONS RUNX3 rs760805 polymorphism can contribute to AS incidence in Chinese Han people. The interaction of the 2 polymorphisms may be a risk factor for AS.
MiR-20a shows a significant role in the development of various human tumors. However, its specific biological function in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still not clear. qRT-PCR was applied for detecting miR-20a expression. The analysis of cell growth and apoptosis were performed by MTT, xenograft models, Western blot assays. Dual luciferase reporter, Western blotting and qRT-PCR were carried out to verify the potential target of miR-20a. In NSCLC tissues and cells, miR-20a was highly expressed and RUNX3 was lowly expressed. Moreover, up-regulation of miR-20a expression promoted NSCLC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, while low-expression of miR-20a showed the converse case on cell proliferation, invasion and migration. RUNX3 was verified as the direct target of miR-20a and it could overturn its biological function in NSCLC cells. Moreover, miR-20a negatively regulated RUNX3 expression. Mechanistically, increasing miR-20a expression inhibited RUNX3 expression and then activated the TGF-β signaling pathway. Taken together, our results demonstrated that re-expression of miR-20a promoted lung tumorigenesis by down-regulation of RUNX3 and facilitating the activation of TGF-β signaling pathway.
Exhausted CD8+ T (Tex) cells are dysfunctional due to persistent antigen exposure in chronic viral infection and tumor contexts. A stem cell-like Tex (Tex-stem) subset can self-renew and differentiate into terminally exhausted (Tex-term) cells. Here, we show that ectopic Tcf1 expression potently promoted the generation of Tex-stem cells in both a chronic viral infection and preclinical tumor models. Tcf1 overexpression diminished coinhibitory receptor expression and enhanced polycytokine-producing capacity while retaining a heightened responses to checkpoint blockade, leading to enhanced viral and tumor control. Mechanistically, ectopically expressed Tcf1 exploited existing and novel chromatin accessible sites as transcriptional enhancers or repressors and modulated the transcriptome by enforcing pre-existing expression patterns in Tex-stem cells, such as enhanced suppression of Blimp1 and Bim and acquisition of new downstream genes, including Mx1, Tox2, and Runx3. These findings reveal a pronounced impact of ectopic Tcf1 expression on Tex functional restoration and highlight the therapeutic potential of harnessing Tcf1-enforced transcriptional programs.
RUNX3, a RUNX family transcription factor, regulates normal hematopoiesis and functions as a tumor suppressor in various tumors in humans and mice. However, emerging studies have documented increased expression of RUNX3 in hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPC) of a subset of patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) showing a worse outcome, suggesting an oncogenic function for RUNX3 in the pathogenesis of hematologic malignancies. To elucidate the oncogenic function of RUNX3 in the pathogenesis of MDS in vivo, we generated a RUNX3-expressing, Tet2-deficient mouse model with the pancytopenia and dysplastic blood cells characteristic of MDS in patients. RUNX3-expressing cells markedly suppressed the expression levels of Runx1, a critical regulator of hemaotpoiesis in normal and malignant cells, as well as its target genes, which included crucial tumor suppressors such as Cebpa and Csf1r. RUNX3 bound these genes and remodeled their Runx1-binding regions in Tet2-deficient cells. Overexpression of RUNX3 inhibited the transcriptional function of Runx1 and compromised hematopoiesis to facilitate the development of MDS in the absence of Tet2, indicating that RUNX3 is an oncogene. Furthermore, overexpression of RUNX3 activated the transcription of Myc target genes and rendered cells sensitive to inhibition of Myc-Max heterodimerization. Collectively, these results reveal the mechanism by which RUNX3 overexpression exerts oncogenic effects on the cellular function of and transcriptional program in Tet2-deficient stem cells to drive the transformation of MDS. SIGNIFICANCE: This study defines the oncogenic effects of transcription factor RUNX3 in driving the transformation of myelodysplastic syndrome, highlighting RUNX3 as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
Runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a candidate tumor suppressor, and its inactivation may play a crucial role in the carcinogenesis process of numerous cancer types, including esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). We previously revealed that RUNX3 inactivation was correlated with lymph node metastasis (LNM) and ESCC recurrence. However, the exact mechanisms of this process are still under investigation. The aim of the present study was to examine the potential roles and underlying molecular mechanisms of RUNX3 in ESCC metastasis and the epithelial‑mesenchymal transition (EMT). According to the results, RUNX3 expression in ESCC tissue was significantly reduced compared with that in adjacent normal tissue (0.50±0.20 vs. 0.83±0.16; P<0.001). In addition, statistical analysis revealed a close association between decreased RUNX3 expression and T status (P=0.027) and LNM (P=0.017) in ESCC patients. Pearson's correlation coefficient analysis was then used to evaluate correlations between RUNX3 and EMT‑related marker expression. The results revealed that RUNX3 expression in ESCC tissues was negatively correlated with the expression of N‑cadherin (r=‑0.429; P<0.01) and Snail (r=‑0.364; P<0.01) and positively correlated with the expression of E‑cadherin (r=0.580; P<0.01). Moreover, Eca109 and EC9706 cell invasion, migration, MMP‑9 expression and EMT were significantly inhibited by RUNX3 overexpression. Notably, further analysis revealed that RUNX3 overexpression markedly inhibited the phosphorylation of Smad2/3; RUNX3‑overexpressing cells also displayed less sensitivity to TGF‑β1‑induced EMT than control cells. Thus, RUNX3 may inhibit the invasion and migration of ESCC cells by reversing EMT through TGF‑β/Smad signaling and may be useful as a therapeutic target.
Finding out the driver gene critical for the maintenance of breast cancer stem cells (BrCSCs) is important for designing a new strategy to eradicate these cells to improve patient's prognosis. Here, in our study, we revealed that PIM1, an oncogenic serine-threonine kinase and a well-proven contributor to the tumorigenesis of breast cancer, was involved in BrCSCs regulation and promised to be a new target for eradicating BrCSCs. In brief, PIM1 could enhance the stem cell-like traits of breast cancer cells by promoting the phosphorylation and cytoplasmic localization of RUNX3. The nuclear dislocation of RUNX3 disabled this tumour suppressor and led to breast cancer cells gaining stem cell-like traits. Inhibition of PIM1 significantly induced the nuclear retention of RUNX3, recovered its transcriptional function and attenuated the stem cell-like properties of breast cancer cells. Those findings deepened our understanding of PIM1's oncogenic effect, underlining the significance of PIM1 in designing a new strategy aimed at BrCSCs.
Peripheral CD4+CD8+ double positive (DP) T cells are a phenotypically and functionally heterogeneous population depending on their origin and pathologic context. We previously identified among tumour infiltrating lymphocytes in melanoma, a tumour-reactive MHC class-I restricted CD4lowCD8high DP αβ T-cell subpopulation with CD4-like function. In this study, we used an in-depth comparative transriptomic analysis of intra-melanoma DP T cells and CD4 and CD8 single positive (SP) T cells, to better comprehend the origin of this DP phenotype, and define the transcriptomic signature of activated DP T cells. We observed that intra-melanoma DP T cells were transcriptome-wise closer to their CD8 SP T-cell counterparts in terms of number of genes differentially expressed (97 in common with CD8 SP T cells and 15 with CD4 SP T cells) but presented hallmarks of a transition to a CD4-like functional profile (CD40LG) with a decreased cytotoxic signature (KLRC1) in favour of an increased cytokine-receptor interaction signature (IL4, IL24, IL17A…). This unleashed CD4-like program could be the results of the observed unbalanced expression of the THPOK/Runx3 transcription factors in DP T cells. Overall, this study allow us to speculate that intra-melanoma DP T cells arise from CD8 SP T cells being reprogrammed to a helper function.
The main modalities for gastric cancer screening are limited to upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and contrast radiography. The former is invasive, and the latter has high false-negative rates. Thus, alternative diagnostic strategies are required. One solution may be a liquid biopsy. Methylated RUNX3 is a well-known biomarker of gastric cancer but it is very difficult to detect with conventional bisulfite-based methylation assays when only a small amount of serum is available. We developed the combined restriction digital PCR (CORD) assay, a new methylation assay allowing for the counting of as little as one copy of a methylated gene in a small sample of DNA without necessitating DNA bisulfite treatment. We evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of the serum DNA testing of methylated RUNX3 by the CORD assay for the detection of early gastric cancer using 50 patients with early gastric cancer and 61 control individuals. The CORD assay had a sensitivity of 50.0% and a specificity of 80.3% for early gastric cancer. Methylated RUNX3 copies were significantly associated with tumor size, massive submucosal invasion, and lymph-vascular invasion. After the treatment, the median number of methylated RUNX3 copies was significantly decreased. The CORD assay may provide an alternative screening strategy to detect even early-stage gastric cancer.
CCL5 is a unique chemokine with distinct stage and cell-type specificities for regulating inflammation, but how these specificities are achieved and how CCL5 modulates immune responses is not well understood. Here we identify two stage-specific enhancers: the proximal enhancer mediates the constitutive CCL5 expression during the steady state, while the distal enhancer located 1.35 Mb from the promoter induces CCL5 expression in activated cells. Both enhancers are antagonized by RUNX/CBFβ complexes, and SATB1 further mediates the long-distance interaction of the distal enhancer with the promoter. Deletion of the proximal enhancer decreases CCL5 expression and augments the cytotoxic activity of tissue-resident T and NK cells, which coincides with reduced melanoma metastasis in mouse models. By contrast, increased CCL5 expression resulting from RUNX3 mutation is associated with more tumor metastasis in the lung. Collectively, our results suggest that RUNX3-mediated CCL5 repression is critical for modulating anti-tumor immunity.
The heterodimeric cytokine interleukin-23 (IL-23 or IL23A/IL12B) is produced by dendritic cells and macrophages and promotes the proinflammatory and regenerative activities of T helper 17 (Th17) and innate lymphoid cells. A recent study has reported that IL-23 is also secreted by lung adenoma cells and generates an inflammatory and immune-suppressed stroma. Here, we observed that proinflammatory tumor necrosis factor (TNF)/NF-κB and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling strongly induce IL23A expression in intestinal epithelial cells. Moreover, we identified a strong crosstalk between the NF-κB and MAPK/ERK kinase (MEK) pathways, involving the formation of a transcriptional enhancer complex consisting of proto-oncogene c-Jun (c-Jun), RELA proto-oncogene NF-κB subunit (RelA), RUNX family transcription factor 1 (RUNX1), and RUNX3. Collectively, these proteins induced IL23A secretion, confirmed by immunoprecipitation of endogenous IL23A from activated human colorectal cancer (CRC) cell culture supernatants. Interestingly, IL23A was likely secreted in a noncanonical form, as it was not detected by an ELISA specific for heterodimeric IL-23 likely because IL12B expression is absent in CRC cells. Given recent evidence that IL23A promotes tumor formation, we evaluated the efficacy of MAPK/NF-κB inhibitors in attenuating IL23A expression and found that the MEK inhibitor trametinib and BAY 11-7082 (an IKKα/IκB inhibitor) effectively inhibited IL23A in a subset of human CRC lines with mutant KRAS or BRAFV600E mutations. Together, these results indicate that proinflammatory and mitogenic signals dynamically regulate IL23A in epithelial cells. They further reveal its secretion in a noncanonical form independent of IL12B and that small-molecule inhibitors can attenuate IL23A secretion.
BACKGROUND: The epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of renal tubular epithelial cells is the main pathological alteration in diabetic nephropathy (DN). Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been used for the treatment of DN in clinical practice and has been proven to be effective.PURPOSE: This aim of this study was to shed light on the efficacy of Shenxiao decoction (SXD) on the EMT of renal tubular epithelial cells and the molecular mechanisms of SXD in mice with DN, as well as on the high glucose (HG)- and TGF-β1-induced EMT of NRK-52E and HK-2 cells.STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A bioinformatics and network pharmacology method were utilized to construct the active ingredient-target networks of SXD that were responsible for the beneficial effects against DN. The effects of RUNX3 were validated in HG- and TGF-β1-induced EMT processes in NRK-52E and HK-2 cells.RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis revealed that 122 matching targets were closely associated with the regulation of cell migration and the AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications. The results also revealed that, relative to the mice with DN, the mice in the treatment group had an improved general state and reduced blood glucose levels. The degradation of renal function was ameliorated by SXD. Moreover, the protective effects of SXD were also observed on renal structural changes. Furthermore, SXD suppressed the activation of the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1/Smad pathway and upregulated the RUNX3 and E-cadherin levels and downregulated the extracellular matrix (ECM) protein levels in mice with DN. SXD was further found to prevent the HG- and TGF-β1-induced EMT processes in NRK-52E and HK-2 cells. Additionally, the overexpression of RUNX3 markedly inhibited the EMT and TGF-β1/Smad pathway induced by HG and TGF-β1 in NRK-52E and HK-2 cells.CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results suggest that SXD maybe alleviate EMT in DN via the inhibition of the TGF-β1/Smad/RUNX3 signaling pathway under hyperglycemic conditions.
Guiding progenitor cell development between chondral versus endochondral pathways is still an unachieved task of cartilage neogenesis, and human mesenchymal progenitor cell (MPC) chondrogenesis is considered as a valuable model to better understand hypertrophic development of chondrocytes. Transcription factors Runx2, Runx3, and Mef2c play prominent roles for chondrocyte hypertrophy during mouse development, but little is known on the importance of these key fate-determining factors for endochondral development of human MPCs. The aim of this study was to unravel the regulation of RUNX2, RUNX3, and MEF2C during MPC chondrogenesis, the pathways driving their expression, and the downstream hypertrophic targets affected by their regulation. RUNX2, RUNX3, and MEF2C gene expression was differentially regulated during chondrogenesis of MPCs, but remained low and unregulated when non-hypertrophic articular chondrocytes were differentiated under the same conditions. RUNX3 and MEF2C mRNA and protein levels rose in parallel to hypertrophic marker upregulation, but surprisingly, RUNX2 gene expression changed only by trend and RUNX2 protein remained undetectable. While RUNX3 expression was driven by TGF-β and BMP signaling, MEF2C responded to WNT-, BMP-, and Hedgehog-pathway inhibition. MEF2C but not RUNX3 levels correlated significantly with COL10A1, IHH, and IBSP gene expression when hypertrophy was attenuated. IBSP was a downstream target of RUNX3 and MEF2C but not RUNX2 in SAOS-2 cells, underlining the capacity of RUNX3 and MEF2C to stimulate osteogenic marker expression in human cells. Conclusively, RUNX3 and MEF2C appeared more important than RUNX2 for human endochondral MPC chondrogenesis. Pathways altering the speed of chondrogenesis (FGF, TGF-β, BMP) affected RUNX2 or RUNX3, while pathways changing hypertrophy (WNT, PTHrP/HH) regulated mainly MEF2C. Taken together, reduction of MEF2C levels is a new goal to shift human cartilage neogenesis toward the chondral pathway.
Rationale: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are considered to be essential for tumorigenesis, recurrence, and metastasis and therefore serve as a biomarker for tumor progression in diverse cancers. Recent studies have illustrated that specific miRNAs exhibit novel therapeutic potential by controlling CSC properties. miR-1275 is upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) and enhances its stemness. However, the underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated. Methods: miRNA expression microarray of LUAD and adjacent nontumor tissues was used to identify miRNAs involved in LUAD malignant progression. miR-1275 expression level was determined using quantitative real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and in situ hybridization (ISH), and its correlation with clinicopathological characteristics was analyzed in LUAD specimens. The upstream regulator of miR-1275 was validated by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). The biological functions and underlying mechanisms of miR-1275 were investigated both in vitro and in vivo. Results: MiR-1275 was highly upregulated in lung cancer cell lines and LUAD tissues. Overexpression of miR-1275 in lung cancer patients was associated with shorter overall- and recurrence-free-survival. Proto-oncogene HIF-1ɑ was identified as the transcription mediator of miR-1275. Activation of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling by miR-1275 was found to enhance the stemness of LUAD cells, while antagonizing miR-1275 or suppressing Wnt/β-catenin and Notch pathways potently reversed miR-1275-induced pathway co-activation and stemness. Enhanced stemness dramatically promoted tumorigenicity, recurrence, and metastasis. miR-1275 directly targeted multiple antagonists of Wnt/β-catenin and Notch pathways, including DKK3, SFRP1, GSK3β, RUNX3, and NUMB, respectively, which resulted in signaling activation. Conclusions: Our findings identified miR-1275 as a potential oncogene in LUAD that exerts its tumorigenic effect through co-activating Wnt/β-catenin and Notch signaling pathways. Thus, HIF-1ɑ-regulated miR-1275 might be a potential therapeutic target for LUAD.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of Runt-associated transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) on the invasion and metastasis of human colon cancer HT-29 cells and to preliminarily explore the mechanism of its anticancer effect.METHODS: The RUNX3 plasmid vector was transfected into human colon cancer HT-29 cells by liposome-mediated transfection, while the empty vector and the blank group were used as the control group. After Geneticin (G418) screening, HT-29 cells with stable expression of RUNX3 gene were obtained. The expressions of mRNA and proteins of RUNX3 and metalloproteinases (MMP)-2/9 were detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot. Cell proliferation was determined by MTT assay. The effect of RUNX3 on invasion and metastasis of HT-29 cells was evaluated by scratch injury assay, Transwell chamber, and Matrigel invasion model.RESULTS: RUNX3 was expressed stably in HT-29 cells after transfection. The expressions of RUNX3 mRNA and proteins in the experimental group were significantly higher than those in the blank/empty vector groups. Meanwhile, the expressions of MMP-2/9 mRNA and proteins in the observation group were significantly lower than those in the blank group and the empty vector group. The proliferation and migration ability in the experimental group was significantly lower than blank/empty vector groups from the third day. Transwell chamber experiment and Matrigel invasion assay showed that the number of Transwell cells was decreased significantly than blank/empty vector groups, but no difference was found between the blank group and the empty vector group.CONCLUSION: RUNX3 can inhibit the invasion and metastasis of human colon cancer HT-29 cells, and the mechanism may be related to decreased expression of MMP-2 and MMP-9.
PURPOSE: Zinc oxide nanoparticles (nZnO) have been widely used in the medicine field. Numerous mechanistic studies for nZnO's anticancer effects are merely performed under high concentration exposure. However, possible anticancer mechanisms of epigenetic dysregulation induced by low doses of nZnO are unclear.METHODS: nZnO were characterized and bladder cancer T24 cells were treated with nZnO for 48 hrs at different exposure concentrations. Cell cycle, apoptosis, cell migration and invasion were determined. We performed qRT-PCR, Western blot and chromatin immunoprecipitation to detect the mRNA and protein levels of signaling pathway cascades for histone modification.RESULTS: In this study, we investigated the potential anticancer effects and mechanisms of nZnO on histone modifications in bladder cancer T24 cells upon low-dose exposure. Our findings showed that low concentrations of nZnO resulted in cell cycle arrest at S phase, facilitated cellular late apoptosis, repressed cell invasion and migration after 48 hrs exposure. These anticancer effects could be attributed to increased RUNX3 levels resulting from reduced H3K27me3 occupancy on the RUNX3 promoter, as well as decreased contents of histone methyltransferase EZH2 and the trimethylation of histone H3K27. Our findings reveal that nZnO are able to enter into the cytoplasm and nucleus of T24 cells. Additionally, both particles and ions from nZnO may jointly contribute to the alteration of histone methylation. Moreover, sublethal nZnO-conducted anticancer effects and epigenetic mechanisms were not associated with oxidative stress or DNA damage.CONCLUSION: We reveal a novel epigenetic mechanism for anticancer effects of nZnO in bladder cancer cells under low-dose exposure. This study will provide experimental basis for the toxicology and cancer therapy of nanomaterials.
Breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs) are competent to initiate tumor formation and growth and refractory to conventional therapies. Consequently BCSCs are implicated in tumor recurrence. Many signaling cascades associated with BCSCs are critical for epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). We developed a model system to mechanistically examine BCSCs in basal-like breast cancer using MCF10AT1 FACS sorted for CD24 (negative/low in BCSCs) and CD44 (positive/high in BCSCs). Ingenuity Pathway Analysis comparing RNA-seq on the CD24-/low versus CD24+/high MCF10AT1 indicates that the top activated upstream regulators include TWIST1, TGFβ1, OCT4, and other factors known to be increased in BCSCs and during EMT. The top inhibited upstream regulators include ESR1, TP63, and FAS. Consistent with our results, many genes previously demonstrated to be regulated by RUNX factors are altered in BCSCs. The RUNX2 interaction network is the top significant pathway altered between CD24-/low and CD24+/high MCF10AT1. RUNX1 is higher in expression at the RNA level than RUNX2. RUNX3 is not expressed. While, human-specific quantitative polymerase chain reaction primers demonstrate that RUNX1 and CDH1 decrease in human MCF10CA1a cells that have grown tumors within the murine mammary fat pad microenvironment, RUNX2 and VIM increase. Treatment with an inhibitor of RUNX binding to CBFβ for 5 days followed by a 7-day recovery period results in EMT suggesting that loss of RUNX1, rather than increase in RUNX2, is a driver of EMT in early stage breast cancer. Increased understanding of RUNX regulation on BCSCs and EMT will provide novel insight into therapeutic strategies to prevent recurrence.
Effector functions of immunoglobulin G (IgG) are regulated by the composition of a glycan moiety, thus affecting activity of the immune system. Aberrant glycosylation of IgG has been observed in many diseases, but little is understood about the underlying mechanisms. We performed a genome-wide association study of IgG N-glycosylation (N = 8090) and, using a data-driven network approach, suggested how associated loci form a functional network. We confirmed in vitro that knockdown of IKZF1 decreases the expression of fucosyltransferase FUT8, resulting in increased levels of fucosylated glycans, and suggest that RUNX1 and RUNX3, together with SMARCB1, regulate expression of glycosyltransferase MGAT3. We also show that variants affecting the expression of genes involved in the regulation of glycoenzymes colocalize with variants affecting risk for inflammatory diseases. This study provides new evidence that variation in key transcription factors coupled with regulatory variation in glycogenes modifies IgG glycosylation and has influence on inflammatory diseases.
BACKGROUND: Highly sensitive and specific urinary biomarkers for the early detection of bladder cancer (BC) to improve the performance of urinary cytology are needed.OBJECTIVE: To investigate the usefulness of methylation markers in voided urine to identify BC presence and grade.DESIGN, SETTINGS, AND PARTICIPANTS: Using genome-wide methylation strategies in Toronto, Canada and Liège, Belgium, we have identified differentially methylated genes (TWIST1, RUNX3, GATA4, NID2, and FOXE1) in low-grade vs. high-grade BC tissue and urine. We accrued urine samples from 313 patients using a 2:1 ratio in a case-control setting from Toronto, Canada, Halifax, Canada, and Zurich, Switzerland. We studied the usefulness of these 5 methylated genes to identify BC and discriminate cancer grade in voided urine specimens. Urinary cell sediment DNA was evaluated using qPCR-based MethyLight assay. Multivariable logistic regression prediction models were created.RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: We included 211 BC patients (180 nonmuscle invasive) and 102 controls. In univariate analyses, all methylated genes significantly predicted BC vs. no BC, and high grade vs. low grade (all P < 0.05). In multivariable analysis, NID2, TWIST1, and age were independent predictors of BC (all P < 0.05). Sensitivity of NID2 and TWIST1 to predict BC and BC grade was 76.2% and 77.6%, respectively, whereas specificity was 83.3% and 61.1%, respectively. Multivariable models predicting BC overall and discriminating between high-grade and low-grade BC reached area under the receiver operating characteristics curves of 0.89 and 0.78, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: This multi-centric study in a real life scenario (different countries, techniques, and pathologists) supports the promise of epigenetic urinary markers in noninvasively detecting BC. With sensitivities and specificities in the range of 80%, the overall performance characteristics of this panel of methylated genes probably does not allow such signature to significantly alter clinical care at this stage but is worth further studying for instance in BC surveillance or screening in high-risk populations.
Comment in    Cell Mol Immunol. 2020 Jul;17(7):682-683.
Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a clonal haemopoietic stem cell disorders with reciprocal translocation in chromosome 9 (ch9) and 22 (ch22) which cause the fusion of Break cluster region-Abelson murine leukemia (BCR-ABL) oncogene. This fusion will activate tyrosine kinase. Imatinib mesylate is the first tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), which could change the prognosis of CML patients. However, there is a resistance to TKI's, and based on transcriptomic study, increase expression of gen signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) 5A and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) can cause resistance to TKI's. The STAT5 protein, which in normal myeloid cells being activated by cytokine, in CML patients was activated even without cytokines. STAT5 refer to STAT5A and STAT5B, however they have might have different role in hematopoietic stem cells or in CML cells. This review summarizes the role of STAT5 in tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance in CML patients.
Cells are designed to be sensitive to a myriad of external cues so they can fulfil their individual destiny as part of the greater whole. A number of well-characterised signalling pathways dictate the cell's response to the external environment and incoming messages. In healthy, well-ordered homeostatic systems these signals are tightly controlled and kept in balance. However, given their powerful control over cell fate, these pathways, and the transcriptional machinery they orchestrate, are frequently hijacked during the development of neoplastic disease. A prime example is the Wnt signalling pathway that can be modulated by a variety of ligands and inhibitors, ultimately exerting its effects through the β-catenin transcription factor and its downstream target genes. Here we focus on the interplay between the three-member family of RUNX transcription factors with the Wnt pathway and how together they can influence cell behaviour and contribute to cancer development. In a recurring theme with other signalling systems, the RUNX genes and the Wnt pathway appear to operate within a series of feedback loops. RUNX genes are capable of directly and indirectly regulating different elements of the Wnt pathway to either strengthen or inhibit the signal. Equally, β-catenin and its transcriptional co-factors can control RUNX gene expression and together they can collaborate to regulate a large number of third party co-target genes.
Cells are constantly exposed to endogenous and exogenous stresses that can result in DNA damage. In response, they have evolved complex pathways to maintain genomic integrity. RUNX family transcription factors (RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 in mammals) are master regulators of development and differentiation, and are frequently dysregulated in cancer. A growing body of research also implicates RUNX proteins as regulators of the DNA damage response, often acting in conjunction with the p53 and Fanconi anemia pathways. In this review, we discuss the functional role and mechanisms involved in RUNX factor mediated response to DNA damage and other cellular stresses. We highlight the impact of these new findings on our understanding of cancer predisposition associated with RUNX factor dysregulation and their implications for designing novel approaches to prevent cancer formation in affected individuals.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of miR106a on the growth of breast cancer xenografts and the sensitivity of chemotherapeutic agents.METHODS: Breast cancer cell lines (MDA-MB231 and MCF7) were transfected with an miR106 mimic and miR106a inhibitor. BALB/c female nude mice were selected to construct a transplanted-tumor model. Cisplatin treatment was performed 2 weeks after inoculation. After 5 weeks, tumor tissue was weighed. Apoptosis of tumor cells was detected by TUNEL staining. The expression of these proteins (Ki67, β-catenin, cyclin D1 and cMyc) was detected by immunohistochemistry. The contents of P53, RUNX3, ABCG2, β-catenin, BAX, and BCL2 mRNA were detected by qRT-PCR.RESULTS: The miR106a mimic (MM) group's tumor volume and weight were significantly bigger than those of the model group. miR106a mRNA content was higher than the blank control group, and β-catenin and Ki67 protein were strongly positive. β-catenin, BCL2, and ABCG2 mRNA content was were increased. P53, BAX, and RUNX3 mRNA content was decreased. The number of positive cells on TUNEL staining was significantly lower in the miR106a inhibitor (MI) group. After cisplatin treatment, inhibition of tumor growth was most obvious in the MI+DDP (cisplatin) group. Compared with the MM group, tumor growth in the MM+FH535 (Wnt-pathway inhibitor) group was significantly lower, and Wnt-pathway activity was decreased.CONCLUSION: Overexpression of miR106a can promote the growth of transplanted breast cancer and decrease the sensitivity of transplanted tumors to cisplatin. The mechanism may be related to abnormal activation of the Wnt-signaling pathway.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignancies worldwide. Prognosis is often unfavorable. In this study, the effects of microRNA-802 (miR-802) on HCC progression were assessed in vivo and in vitro. miR-802 was found to be significantly upregulated in HCC tumor tissue compared to paired adjacent nontumor tissue. In vitro, transfection with a miR-802 mimic accelerated SMMC-7721 cellular proliferation, increased accumulation of the cell-cycle S-phase cell populations, as well as cell migration. In vivo injection of a miR-802 agomir promoted HCC proliferation in nude mice. Targets of miR-802 were predicted by miRWalk, miRanda, RNA22, and Targetscan. By luciferase reporter assay RUNX3 was identified as a direct target of miR-802. As judged by western blot analysis, RUNX3 was upregulated when miR-802 was inhibited. These data demonstrate increased miR-802 expression in patients with HCC and that miR-802 overexpression promotes tumor cell growth, in a RUNX3-dependent manner.
The RUNX transcription factors serve as master regulators of development and are frequently dysregulated in human cancers. Among the three family members, RUNX3 is the least studied, and has long been considered to be a tumor-suppressor gene in human cancers. This idea is mainly based on the observation that RUNX3 is inactivated by genetic/epigenetic alterations or protein mislocalization during the initiation of tumorigenesis. Recently, this paradigm has been challenged, as several lines of evidence have shown that RUNX3 is upregulated over the course of tumor development. Resolving this paradox and understanding how a single gene can exhibit both oncogenic and tumor-suppressive properties is essential for successful drug targeting of RUNX. We propose a simple explanation for the duality of RUNX3: p53 status. In this model, p53 deficiency causes RUNX3 to become an oncogene, resulting in aberrant upregulation of MYC.
Comprehensive inhibition of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 led to marked cell suppression compared with inhibition of RUNX1 alone, clarifying that the RUNX family members are important for proliferation and maintenance of diverse cancers, and "cluster regulation of RUNX (CROX)" is a very effective strategy to suppress cancer cells. Recent studies reported by us and other groups suggested that wild-type RUNX1 is needed for survival and proliferation of certain types of leukemia, lung cancer, gastric cancer, etc. and for their one of metastatic target sites such as born marrow endothelial niche, suggesting that RUNX1 often functions oncogenic manners in cancer cells. In this review, we describe the significance and paradoxical requirement of RUNX1 tumor suppressor in leukemia and even solid cancers based on recent our findings such as "genetic compensation of RUNX family transcription factors (the compensation mechanism for the total level of RUNX family protein expression)", "RUNX1 inhibition-induced inhibitory effects on leukemia cells and on solid cancers through p53 activation", and "autonomous feedback loop of RUNX1-p53-CBFB in acute myeloid leukemia cells". Taken together, these findings identify a crucial role for the RUNX cluster in the maintenance and progression of cancers and suggest that modulation of the RUNX cluster using the pyrrole-imidazole polyamide gene-switch technology is a potential novel therapeutic approach to control cancers.
Our group is interested in the cytotoxic mechanism during autoimmune neuroinflammation. Unexpectedly, we come across a case that presents a massive enhancement of cytotoxic behavior in lymphocytes, either in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid. Interestingly, this specific patient was refractory to Methylprednisolone treatment. Hypothetically, the cytotoxic activity could represent a novel and complementary effector mechanism to NMOSD pathogenesis. Nevertheless, further investigation is needed to evaluate the extension and the clinical relevance of our finds.
Biological macromolecule condensates formed by liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) have been discovered in recent years to be prevalent in biology. These condensates are involved in diverse processes, including the regulation of gene expression. LLPS of proteins have been found in animal, plant, and bacterial species but have scarcely been identified in viral proteins. Here, we discovered that Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) EBNA2 and EBNALP form nuclear puncta that exhibit properties of liquid-like condensates (or droplets), which are enriched in superenhancers of MYC and Runx3. EBNA2 and EBNALP are transcription factors, and the expression of their target genes is suppressed by chemicals that perturb LLPS. Intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) of EBNA2 and EBNALP can form phase-separated droplets, and specific proline residues of EBNA2 and EBNALP contribute to droplet formation. These findings offer a foundation for understanding the mechanism by which LLPS, previously determined to be related to the organization of P bodies, membraneless organelles, nucleolus homeostasis, and cell signaling, plays a key role in EBV-host interactions and is involved in regulating host gene expression. This work suggests a novel anti-EBV strategy where developing appropriate drugs of interfering LLPS can be used to destroy the function of the EBV's transcription factors.IMPORTANCE Protein condensates can be assembled via liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), a process involving the concentration of molecules in a confined liquid-like compartment. LLPS allows for the compartmentalization and sequestration of materials and can be harnessed as a sensitive strategy for responding to small changes in the environment. This study identified the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) proteins EBNA2 and EBNALP, which mediate virus and cellular gene transcription, as transcription factors that can form liquid-like condensates at superenhancer sites of MYC and Runx3. This study discovered the first identified LLPS of EBV proteins and emphasized the importance of LLPS in controlling host gene expression.
Gastric cancer (GC) is one of the most common malignant tumors of the digestive system. A deeper understanding of the mechanism of proliferation and metastasis is needed to improve patient survival. T cell lymphoma invasion and metastasis 1 (TIAM1) has been proven to play an essential role in the proliferation and metastasis of GC. The aim of this study was to explore the relevant upstream regulatory mechanism of TIAM1. Bioinformatic analysis, RT-qPCR, and dual luciferase reporter assays were used to predict and validate microRNAs that target the TIAM1 gene. Among eleven predicted microRNAs, eight (miR-10b-5p, miR-589-3p, miR-651-3p, miR-335-3p, miR-653-5p, miR-373-3p, miR-372-3p, and miR-205-3p) affected TIAM1 expression; and only miR-10b-5p regulated TIAM1 expression by directly binding to the 3'-UTR of TIAM1 mRNA. miR-10b-5p levels were determined in both normal and cancerous tissues retrieved from GC patients. We observed that by targeting TIAM1 expression, miR-10b-5p inhibited the proliferation, migration, and invasion of GC cells. To verify our observations, we evaluated the participation of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), a known regulator of microRNA expression and tumor suppressor. Tumor-suppressor RUNX3 combined with core-binding factor subunit beta (CBFβ) upregulated miR-10b-5p and suppressed GC. In conclusion, we identified a CBFβ/RUNX3-miR10b-TIAM1 molecular axis that inhibits GC progression and metastasis and may provide suitable treatment targets for GC.
BACKGROUND: High recurrence and poor overall survival in buccal mucosa squamous cell carcinoma (BMSCC) are not well addressed due to lack of efficient prognostic biomarkers and targeted therapies. To uncover gene candidates for the same, transcriptome profiling has been examined in BMSCC, which is not explored yet.METHODS: We compared 9 BMSCC and 2 normal oral FFPE tissues using Agilent SurePrint G3 Human gene expression v3 microarray chips. The obtained RNA signatures were interrogated in the cancer genome atlas (TCGA) dataset for alteration values and survival data.RESULTS: We found total 237 protein coding RNAs and 85 long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) which displayed significant differential expression with criteria of at-least 2 fold change and Benjamini Hochberg FDR < .05. In protein coding RNAs, RUNX3 and EMX2 showed utmost degree of up-regulation and down-regulation, respectively. Likewise, among lncRNAs, ARGFXP2 and lnc-SYCP3-2 displayed highest degree of up-regulation and down-regulation, respectively. Besides, an analysis of the RNA list in TCGA dataset spotted deregulation of 21 genes in both, our cohort and TCGA cohort. Among which, MRTO4 and EIF3J genes, and LINC00310, a lncRNA showed greatest expression alterations. Strikingly, at RNA expression level, up-regulation of two genes, EIF3J and SDCBP, was significantly associated with disease free survival and poor overall survival, respectively.CONCLUSION: Our data documented significant findings to enhance understanding of the disease biology. The proposed RNA candidates (RUNX3, EMX2, MRTO4, EIF3J, SDCBP and LINC00310) may serve as putative therapeutic targets and potential biomarkers for BMSCC diagnosis and prognosis.
Comment in    Trends Immunol. 2020 Mar;41(3):187-189.
Considering the existence of immune-desert in tumor microenvironment, the clinical efficacy of immunotherapy for lung adenocarcinoma is limited. This study aims to investigate the ability of transcription factors in regulating tumor immune microenvironment in lung adenocarcinoma. RNA-seq data were collected from the The Cancer Genome Atlas database. The relationships between transcription factors and immune infiltrates were assessed. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3)-associated immune pathways were investigated by the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, Gene Ontology, and Gene set enrichment analysis. Upregulated chemokines in the RUNX3-overexpressed cell line were determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, western blot, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. These chemokines were further confirmed in RUNX3-downregulated cell lines. Immunochemistry was conducted to determine the expression of RUNX3, CCL3, CCL20, and the numbers of CD8+ T lymphocytes in human lung cancer tissues. Chemokine receptors in CD8+ T cells were explored by flow cytometry and immunofluorescence. T cell recruitment was investigated by transwell assay. After screening 406 transcription factors, RUNX3 was found strongly correlated T cells, cytotoxic lymphocytes, and CD8+ T cells. RUNX3 was associated with a variety of immunomodulators, including LAG3, CTLA-4, PD-1, and TIGIT. More importantly, RUNX3 was involved in immune-related pathways, especially immune cell migration-related pathways. Further investigation exhibited RUNX3 could upregulate CCL3 and CCL20 whose receptors CCR5 and CCR6 were upregulated in CD8+ effector T cells, while downregulation of RUNX3 decreased the expression of CCL3 and CCL20 and the infiltration of CD8+ T cells in RUNX3-downregulated lung cancer cell lines. Immunochemistry exhibited positive correlations of RUNX3 with CCL3 and CD8+ T cells in clinical lung adenocarcinoma samples. The chemotaxis assay proved RUNX3 could promote CD8+ T cell recruitment by upregulating CCL3 and CCL20. This study unearths RUNX3 related molecular mechanisms of tumor immune microenvironment and may reverse the immune-desert condition in lung adenocarcinoma and be combined with immune checkpoint blockade and adoptive cell therapy.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a member of Runt domain family that is known to play key roles in various different types of tumor. It was recently demonstrated that RUNX3 may also be associated with cervical cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential association between transcriptome changes and RUNX3 expression in cervical cancer. A RUNX3 overexpression model was constructed using cervical cancer cell lines by RUNX3 plasmid transfection. It was demonstrated that the upregulated expression of RUNX3 inhibited proliferation of cervical cancer cell lines, particularly SiHa cells, and was associated with the expression of the IL-6, PTGS2, FOSL1 and TNF genes. In addition, it was revealed that the TNF and FoxO pathways may also be affected by RUNX3. Therefore, the expression of the RUNX3 gene may be involved in the occurrence and progression of cervical cancer.
Runx2 is an essential transcription factor for skeletal development. It is expressed in multipotent mesenchymal cells, osteoblast-lineage cells, and chondrocytes. Runx2 plays a major role in chondrocyte maturation, and Runx3 is partly involved. Runx2 regulates chondrocyte proliferation by directly regulating Ihh expression. It also determines whether chondrocytes become those that form transient cartilage or permanent cartilage, and functions in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis. Runx2 is essential for osteoblast differentiation and is required for the proliferation of osteoprogenitors. Ihh is required for Runx2 expression in osteoprogenitors, and hedgehog signaling and Runx2 induce the differentiation of osteoprogenitors to preosteoblasts in endochondral bone. Runx2 induces Sp7 expression, and Runx2, Sp7, and canonical Wnt signaling are required for the differentiation of preosteoblasts to immature osteoblasts. It also induces the proliferation of osteoprogenitors by directly regulating the expression of Fgfr2 and Fgfr3. Furthermore, Runx2 induces the proliferation of mesenchymal cells and their commitment into osteoblast-lineage cells through the induction of hedgehog (Gli1, Ptch1, Ihh), Fgf (Fgfr2, Fgfr3), Wnt (Tcf7, Wnt10b), and Pthlh (Pth1r) signaling pathway gene expression in calvaria, and more than a half-dosage of Runx2 is required for their expression. This is a major cause of cleidocranial dysplasia, which is caused by heterozygous mutation of RUNX2. Cbfb, which is a co-transcription factor that forms a heterodimer with Runx2, enhances DNA binding of Runx2 and stabilizes Runx2 protein by inhibiting its ubiquitination. Thus, Runx2/Cbfb regulates the proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes and osteoblast-lineage cells by activating multiple signaling pathways and via their reciprocal regulation.
Upstream transcription factor family member 3 (USF3) c.3781C>A (rs1026364) in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) has been firmly associated with bone mineral density (BMD) in genome-wide association study (GWAS). However, the molecular mechanism by which it influences BMD and osteoporosis is unknown. Bioinformatics analyses suggested that the risk c.3781A allele creates a target site for hsa-miR-345-5p binding. Luciferase assay validated that the c.3781A allele displayed significantly lower luciferase activities than the c.3781C allele in the human osteoblast cell line hFOB1.19, osteosarcoma cell lines U-2OS and Saos-2, and embryonic kidney cell line 293T. Furthermore, hsa-miR-345-5p regulated USF3 expression on both messenger RNA and protein levels in hFOB1.19 and U937 cells with heterozygous A/C genotype. Transfection of hsa-miR-345-5p antagomiR in heterozygous hFOB1.19 cells significantly increased the expression of osteogenic marker genes RUNX2, OSTERIX, COL1A1, ALP, OPN, OCN, and alkaline phosphatase activity and matrix mineralization level. Importantly, we found that hsa-miR-345-5p also inhibits osteoblast maturation in cell lines U-2OS with hsa-miR-345-5p nonbinding C/C genotype by targeting RUNX3 and SMAD1. Our findings uncovered a novel pathogenetic mechanism of osteoporosis by GWAS variant c.3781C>A-mediated disruption of hsa-miR-345-5p binding at the 3'-UTR of USF3 and the functional role of hsa-miR-345-5p in osteogenic differentiation.
BACKGROUND: The incidence of oesophageal adenocarcinoma is increasing globally. Barrett's oesophagus (BO) is a pre-malignant condition with no biomarker to risk stratify those at highest risk of dysplasia and malignant transformation.METHODS: Subcellular epithelial protein (HMGB1, p53, RUNX3) expression, alongside expression of CD20, CD4, CD8 and Foxp3 to characterise stromal B lymphocyte, and helper, cytotoxic and regulatory T-lymphocyte cell infiltrate, respectively, was assessed by immunohistochemistry in 218 human tissue samples including normal oesophageal/gastric biopsies (n = 39), BO (non-dysplasia, dysplasia, non-dysplastic background from progressors to dysplasia or cancer, n = 121) and oesophageal adenocarcinoma (n = 58).RESULTS: There is a dynamic subcellular epithelial expression of HMGB1 (loss of nuclear, emergence of cytoplasmic), associated with epithelial p53 expression and differential immune cell phenotype in oesophageal neoplastic progression. We identify a protein signature and lymphocyte infiltrate in non-dysplastic BO when progressive disease (dysplasia or adenocarcinoma) is present but not histologically represented in the biopsied field. There is a dynamic stromal lymphocytic infiltrate in oesophageal neoplastic progression.CONCLUSIONS: This data reveals novel insights into the microenvironment of BO and progression towards cancer and identifies a novel high-risk biomarker of disease progression to aid surveillance strategies to identify early progression and impact future incidence of oesophageal cancer.
A tumor is an abnormal mass of tissue that arises when cells divide more than they should or do not die when they should. The cellular decision regarding whether to undergo division or death is made at the restriction (R)-point. Consistent with this, an increasingly large body of evidence indicates that deregulation of the R-point decision-making machinery accompanies the formation of most tumors. Although the R-point decision is literally a matter of life and death for the cell, and thus critical for the health of the organism, it remains unclear how a cell chooses its own fate. Recent work demonstrated that the R-point constitutes a novel oncogene surveillance mechanism operated by R-point-associated complexes of which RUNX3 and BRD2 are the core factors (Rpa-RX3 complexes). Here, we show that not only RUNX3 and BRD2, but also other members of the RUNX and BRD families (RUNX1, RUNX2, BRD3, and BRD4), are involved in R-point regulation.
Acquired immune responses are initiated by activation of CD4+ helper T (Th) cells via recognition of antigens presented by conventional dendritic cells (cDCs). DCs instruct Th-cell polarization program into specific effector Th subset, which will dictate the type of immune responses. Hence, it is important to unravel how differentiation and/or activation of DC are linked with Th-cell-intrinsic mechanism that directs differentiation toward a specific effector Th subset. Here, we show that loss of Runx/Cbfβ transcription factors complexes during DC development leads to loss of CD103+CD11b+ cDC2s and alters characteristics of CD103-CD11b+ cDCs in the intestine, which was accompanied with impaired differentiation of Rorγt+ Th17 cells and type 3 Rorγt+ regulatory T cells. We also show that a Runx-binding enhancer in the Rorc gene is essential for T cells to integrate cDC-derived signals to induce Rorγt expression. These findings reveal that Runx/Cbfβ complexes play crucial and complementary roles in cDCs and Th cells to shape converging type 3 immune responses.
BACKGROUND: IL-37 is a newly anti-inflammatory cytokine whose function is largely unknown in cancer. Our preliminary experiment found IL-37 could inhibit the invasion of human cervical cancer (CC) cells and influence the expression of RUNX family whose function was also unclear in CC. The present study aims to further investigate the effects of IL-37 on cell invasion and runt related transcription factor 2 (RUNX2) expression in CC cell lines.METHODS: Firstly, plasmid overexpressing IL-37 or RUNX2 was transfected into Siha and C33A cells by Hilymax. Then, the effects of IL-37 on the mRNA expression of RUNX1, RUNX2 and RUNX3 gene were detected by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Protein expression was measured by Western blot and the grayscale scanning analysis. Finally, the effects of IL-37 or RUNX2 on cell invasion were tested by transwell assay.RESULTS: IL-37 inhibited the mRNA expression of RUNX1 and RUNX2, and increased that of RUNX3 in CC cells. Among the three RUNX genes, RUNX2 showed the most significant change in mRNA expression (decreased by78.5% in Siha cells and by 61.5% in C33A cells) and thus was chosen for the following study. Overexpressed IL-37 inhibited cell invasion by 36.23% in Siha cells (P<0.05) and 26.21% in C33A cells (P<0.01). Overexpression of RUNX2 promoted cell invasion. Up-regulation of IL-37 suppressed markedly the mRNA and protein expression of RUNX2. Furthermore, overexpressed RUNX2 partially restored the inhibited cell invasion by IL-37 to 86.62% in Siha cells (P<0.01) and 87.08% in C33A cells (P<0.01).CONCLUSIONS: IL-37 can significantly inhibit the cell invasion of Siha and C33A cells, which involves the suppression of RUNX2.
Background: HCV infection is related to aberrant methylation of several genes. RASSF1A, E-Cadherin and RUNX3 are tumour suppressor genes that may be inactivated by hypermethylation in many tumours including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We hypothesized that methylation is a diagnostic biomarker for HCC in patients with HCV-related liver cirrhosis.Methods: We recruited 207 cases of HCV-related liver cirrhosis, 193 HCC patients and 53 healthy controls. Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction for detection of circulating hypermethylated RASSF1A, E-Cadherinand RUNX3. Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) was measured by commercial immunoassay.Results: Significant hypermethylation of the three genes was found in the HCC group compared to both cirrhosis and healthy groups (P < 0.001), whereas no significant difference in hypermethylation was found between cirrhosis and healthy groups (P = 0.17, 0.50 and 0.14, respectively). No significant links were found between hypermethylated RASSF1A, E-Cadherin and RUNX3 and stages of Barcelona Clinic of Liver Cancer score (P =0.21, 0.63 and 0.98, respectively). No significant associations were found between AFP value and hypermethylated genes in cirrhosis and HCC groups (P = 0.82) except with E-Cadherin in HCC (P = 0.02). In multiple regression analysis, RASSF1A and E-Cadherin were predictors of HCC within cirrhosis cases, but only E-Cadherin was an independent risk factor for prediction of HCC in cases with low AFP (P = 0.01).Conclusions: The presence of hypermethylated serum RASSF1A, E-Cadherin and RUNX3 is linked to HCC in patients with HCV-related cirrhosis. Only E-Cadherin is an independent risk factor for prediction of HCC with low AFP. These findings may be of diagnostic value.
BACKGROUND: Several epigenetic changes are responsible for transcriptional alterations of signaling pathways and tumour suppressor genes (TSGs) contributing to carcinogenesis. This study was aimed to examine the effect of the phytochemical, genistein on various molecular targets in HeLa cells.METHODS: Quantitative PCR was used to analyze the expression of various molecular targets. Biochemical assays were employed to study the epigenetic enzymes. To correlate the transcriptional status of the selected TSGs and epigenetic modulation, their promoter 5'CpG methylation levels were evaluated by quantitative methylation array followed by methylation specific restriction digestion.RESULTS: The expression of several genes involved in the cell cycle regulation, migration, inflammation, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and mitogen activated kinase-like protein (MAPK) pathway were found to be modulated including CCNB1, TWIST1, MMP14, TERT, AKT1, PTPRR, FOS and IL1A. Genistein modulated the expression of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), histone deacetylases (HDACs), histone methyltransferases (HMTs), demethylases, and histone phosphorylases. Furthermore, genistein decreased the activity of DNMTs, HDACs, and HMTs and reduced global DNA methylation levels. Promoter methylation of several TSGs, including FHIT, RUNX3, CDH1, PTEN, and SOC51, was lowered with corresponding transcriptional increase. Network analysis indicated similar effect of genistein.CONCLUSION: This study presents a comprehensive mechanism of action of genistein showcasing effective epigenetic modulation and widespread transcriptional changes resulting in restoration of tumour suppressor gene expression. This study corroborates the development of genistein as a candidate for anti-cancer therapy.
BACKGROUND: Alcohol intake is a well-known lifestyle risk factor for CRC, and an increasing number of studies have revealed that alcohol intake is also tightly associated with CRC metastasis. However, the effect of alcohol on CRC metastasis and its underlying mechanism remain unclear.METHODS: A retrospective cohort study was performed to investigate the characteristics of patients with alcohol-related CRC. The effects of ethanol on the biological behaviours of CRC cells were assessed through in vivo and in vitro assays using the Lieber-DeCarli ethanol liquid diet and ethanol, respectively. The ethanol-mediated signalling pathway and downstream factors were screened through ELISA, western blot, immunofluorescence and co-immunoprecipitation.FINDINGS: Most patients with alcohol-related CRC, particularly those with tumour metastasis, were characterized by a notably higher circulating ethanol level and a lower systemic acetaldehyde level. Moreover, CRC cells accumulated in ethanol, but not acetaldehyde, to notably higher levels compared with adjacent normal cells. Alcohol intake significantly promoted CRC metastasis via the ethanol-mediated TGF-β/Smad/Snail axis, and ethanol induced the cytoplasmic mislocalization of RUNX3 and further promoted the aggressiveness of CRC by targeting Snail. Pirfenidone (PFD) significantly eliminated the effects of ethanol on CRC metastasis by specifically blocking TGF-β signalling.INTERPRETATION: Alcohol intake plays a vital role in CRC metastasis via the ethanol-mediated TGF-β/RUNX3/Snail axis, and PFD might be a novel therapeutic management strategy for CRC.
Research conducted previously has indicated that microRNAs (miRs) have potential effects on the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The biological functions of miR-552 have been well documented in colon cancer; however, the role of miR-552 in HCC remains unclear. The present study evaluated the effects of miR-552 in HCC physiology, using HCC cell lines as model. An miR-552 inhibitor was transfected into HCC cell lines to knock down the expression of miR-552. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blot analysis were used to detect the expression of miR-552 and Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), respectively. MTT assay was used to analyze cell viability, whilst Transwell and wound-healing assay were used to investigate cell migration. Flow cytometry was performed to measure cell apoptosis. The direct association between RUNX3 and miR-552 was evaluated using dual luciferase reporter assay. The expression of miR-552 was significantly elevated in HCC tumor tissues compared with the adjacent healthy samples. Additionally, transfection with the miR-552 inhibitor decreased cell viability and migration. miR-552 knockdown also increased HCC cell apoptosis in vitro. In conclusion, these results suggest that miR-552 has an oncogenic function in HCC and is a potential biomarker for detecting HCC.
BACKGROUND: Knowledge of the three-dimensional structure of the genome is necessary to understand how gene expression is regulated. Recent experimental techniques such as Hi-C or ChIA-PET measure long-range chromatin interactions genome-wide but are experimentally elaborate, have limited resolution and such data is only available for a limited number of cell types and tissues.RESULTS: While ChIP-seq was not designed to detect chromatin interactions, the formaldehyde treatment in the ChIP-seq protocol cross-links proteins with each other and with DNA. Consequently, also regions that are not directly bound by the targeted TF but interact with the binding site via chromatin looping are co-immunoprecipitated and sequenced. This produces minor ChIP-seq signals at loop anchor regions close to the directly bound site. We use the position and shape of ChIP-seq signals around CTCF motif pairs to predict whether they interact or not. We implemented this approach in a prediction method, termed Computational Chromosome Conformation Capture by Correlation of ChIP-seq at CTCF motifs (7C). We applied 7C to all CTCF motif pairs within 1 Mb in the human genome and validated predicted interactions with high-resolution Hi-C and ChIA-PET. A single ChIP-seq experiment from known architectural proteins (CTCF, Rad21, Znf143) but also from other TFs (like TRIM22 or RUNX3) predicts loops accurately. Importantly, 7C predicts loops in cell types and for TF ChIP-seq datasets not used in training.CONCLUSION: 7C predicts chromatin loops which can help to associate TF binding sites to regulated genes. Furthermore, profiling of hundreds of ChIP-seq datasets results in novel candidate factors functionally involved in chromatin looping. Our method is available as an R/Bioconductor package: http://bioconductor.org/packages/sevenC .
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatric Asthma, Lianyungang Maternal and Child Health Care Hospital, Lianyungang, Jiangsu 222006, China. wangjunhuayyy@sina.com.
Myocardial infarction (MI) is a major contributor to death and disability throughout the world. Increasing evidence shows that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are involved in the progression of MI. Here, we hypothesized that lncRNA potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily q member 1 overlapping transcript 1 (KCNQ1OT1) could affect the development of MI via regulation of Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX)3 by methylation. Initially, by ligation of the left anterior descending coronary artery, an acute MI (AMI) mouse model was established to collect the cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs), which revealed a high KCNQ1OT1 expression and a low RUNX3 expression with its high methylation. After that, KCNQ1OT1 knockdown or RUNX3 overexpression were transduced into the CMECs in order to detect their role in CMEC proliferation, apoptosis, and inflammatory response. Moreover, we assessed their interaction with the inflammatory Notch pathway, by determining the expression of Jagged 1, Hey1, Hes1, Notch intracellular domain, and Notch1. It was observed that after KCNQ1OT1 knockdown, the proliferation of AMI-CMECs was promoted, whereas their apoptosis was inhibited, accompanied by reduced level of inflammatory factors. These trends could also be achieved by RUNX3 overexpression via the Notch pathway. Finally, the regulation of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT)1-dependent methylation in RUNX3 by KCNQ1OT1 was determined, suggesting that KCNQ1OT1 could result in down-regulated RUNX3 expression through promoted RUNX3 methylation caused by recruiting DNMT1. Overall, this study demonstrates that KCNQ1OT1 silencing inhibits RUNX3 methylation, thereby offering protection against CMEC injury and inflammatory response in AMI, which may serve as a promising target for the disease treatment. -Wang, Y., Yang, X., Jiang, A., Wang, W., Li, J., Wen, J. Methylation-dependent transcriptional repression of RUNX3 by KCNQ1OT1 regulates mouse cardiac microvascular endothelial cell viability and inflammatory response following myocardial infarction.
BACKGROUND The methylation status of RUNX3 promoter region, its impact on RUNX3 gene expression, and Th1/Th2 imbalance are unknown in bronchiolitis. This study aimed to explore the predictors of bronchiolitis developing into asthma. MATERIAL AND METHODS The methylation status of RUNX3 promoter was assessed using Illumina HiSeq platform method. The relative RUNX3 mRNA levels in PBMCs were measured by qRT-PCR. Serum IL-4 and IFN-γ concentrations were measured by ELISA. RESULTS A series of sites with significantly higher levels of methylation as compared to their corresponding controls were identified, including 24 sites in group Ba vs. group Cn, 13 sites in group Ba vs. group Ca, 7 sites in group Ba vs. group Bn, 16 sites in group Bn vs. group Cn, 11 sites in group Ca vs. group Cn, and 23 sites in group B vs. group C; P<0.05. The relative mRNA levels in group Ba were significantly lower than those in groups Cn, Ca, Bn; P<0.05. The serum IL-4 concentrations in group Ba were significantly higher than those in group Cn; P<0.05. The serum IFN-γ concentrations in group Ba were significantly lower than those in groups Cn, Ca, Bn; P<0.05. Correlation analysis showed that differentially methylated RUNX3 promoter region sites were significantly negatively correlated with levels of relative RUNX3 mRNA and IFN-γ, and were significantly positively correlated with IL-4 levels. CONCLUSIONS The methylation status of RUNX3 promoter region plays a role in Th1/Th2 imbalance by silencing RUNX3 gene expression, which can serve as predictive marker for the development of bronchiolitis into asthma.
Neural EGFL-like 1 (Nell-1) is a well-studied osteogenic factor that has comparable osteogenic potency with the Food and Drug Administration-approved bone morphogenic protein 2 (BMP-2). In this review, which aims to summarize the advanced Nell-1 research in the past 10 y, we start with the correlation of structural and functional relevance of the Nell-1 protein with the identification of a specific receptor of Nell-1, contactin-associated protein-like 4 (Cntnap4), for osteogenesis. The indispensable role of Nell-1 in normal craniofacial and appendicular skeletal development and growth was also defined by using the newly developed tissue-specific Nell-1 knockout mouse lines in addition to the existing transgenic mouse models. With the achievements on Nell-1's osteogenic therapeutic evaluations from multiple preclinical animal models for local and systemic bone regeneration, the synergistic effect of Nell-1 with BMP-2 on osteogenesis, as well as the advantages of Nell-1 as an osteogenic protein with antiadipogenic, anti-inflammatory, and provascularized characteristics over BMP-2 in bone tissue engineering, is highlighted, which lays the groundwork for the clinical trial approval of Nell-1. At the molecular level, besides the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, we emphasize the significant involvement of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway as well as the key regulatory molecules Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) in Nell-1-induced osteogenesis. In addition, the involvement of Nell-1 in chondrogenesis and its relevant pathologies have been revealed with the participation of the nuclear factor of activated T cells 1 (Nfatc1), Runx3, and Indian hedgehog (Ihh) signaling pathways, although the mechanistic insights of Nell-1's osteochondrogenic property will be continuously evolving. With this perspective, we elucidate some emerging and novel functional properties of Nell-1 in oral-dental and neural tissues that will be the frontiers of future Nell-1 studies beyond the context of bone and cartilage. As such, the therapeutic potential of Nell-1 continues to evolve and grow with continuous pursuit.
Objectives: Neutrophil apoptosis is mandatory for resolving inflammation and is regulated by expression of pro- and anti-apoptotic genes. We studied neutrophils isolated from patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) to investigate apoptosis alterations and to identify transcriptional and circulating factors affecting this process.Method: We enrolled 36 patients (18 in active stage, 18 in remission) and 18 healthy controls. Circulating levels of tumour necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), macrophage migration inhibitory factor, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, interferon-γ, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1, soluble Fas (sFas), sFas ligand, survivin, and pentraxin-3 (PTX3) were evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay/Luminex; circulating apoptotic neutrophils by flow cytometry; and apoptosis-related gene transcripts by real-time polymerase chain reaction.Results: Patients had decreased fractions of circulating apoptotic neutrophils and delayed neutrophil apoptosis was present in vitro. Circulating levels of TNF-α, GM-CSF, sFas, and PTX3 were higher in GPA. Delayed neutrophil apoptosis was accompanied by decreased mRNA of pro-apoptotic genes and transcription factors (DIABLO, PMAIP1, BAX, CASP3, CASP7, RUNX3, E2F1, TP53) and increased anti-apoptotic CFLAR and BCL2A1 mRNA. TNF-α and sFas levels correlated with circulating apoptotic neutrophils and expression of apoptosis genes. Stimulation with TNF-α of neutrophils from controls significantly down-regulated E2F1 and CASP3 expression.Conclusions: Circulating neutrophils in GPA have anti-apoptotic phenotype involving both intrinsic and extrinsic pathways of apoptosis. This is accompanied by increased levels of circulating pro-survival factors (GM-CSF, TNF-α, sFas), independent of disease activity. Anti-apoptotic phenotype of neutrophils in GPA is reproduced by exposure to low concentrations of TNF-α.
Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a lethal malignancy and is refractory to available treatments. Delineating the regulatory mechanisms of metabolic reprogramming, a key event in pancreatic cancer progression, may identify candidate targets with potential therapeutic significance. We hypothesized that inflammatory signaling pathways regulate metabolic adaptations in pancreatic cancer. Metabolic profiling of tumors from PDAC patients with a high- (>median, n = 31) and low-NOS2 (inducible nitric oxide synthase; <median, n = 32) mRNA expression was performed. Differentially abundant metabolites were analyzed and linked with patient survival. The functional role of the prognostically significant metabolite and the mechanism of its regulation by NOS2/NO• (nitric oxide)-mediated signaling pathway was elucidated. The level of kynurenine, a tryptophan metabolite, was associated with high NOS2 expression, and a higher level of kynurenine predicted poor survival in patients (n = 63, p = 0.01). Gene expression analysis in PDAC tumors (n = 63) showed a positive correlation between the expression of NOS2 and the tryptophan/kynurenine pathway genes, including indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) and several aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR)-target genes including NFE2L2 (NRF2), SERPINB2, IL1b, IL6 and IL8, which are implicated in pancreatic cancer. Consistently, treatment of pancreatic cancer cell lines with NO• donor induced IDO1, kynurenine production and the expression of AHR-target genes. Furthermore, kynurenine treatment enhanced spheroid growth and invasive potential of pancreatic cancer cell lines. Mechanistically, NO• -induced IDO1/Kynurenine/AHR signaling was mediated by RUNX3 transcription factor. Our findings identified a novel NO• /RUNX3/Kynurenine metabolic axis, which enhances disease aggressiveness in pancreatic cancer and may have potential translational significance in improving disease outcome.
Neuropathic pain correlates with a lesion or other dysfunction in the nervous system. Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 2 (S1P2) is expressed in the central nervous system and modulates synaptic plasticity. The present study aimed to investigate the role of S1P2 in neuropathic pain caused by chronic constriction injury (CCI). Sprague-Dawley rats were allocated into eight groups (n = 15 for each group): sham, CCI, CCI + green fluorescent protein, CCI + S1P2, CCI + Ctrl-short hairpin RNA (shRNA), CCI + S1P2 shRNA, CCI + S1P2 + CYM-5442, and CCI + S1P2 shRNA + CYM-5442. The CCI model was established via sciatic nerve ligation. S1P2 was overexpressed or knocked down by intrathecal injection of adeno-associated virus-S1P2 (AAV-S1P2) or AAV-S1P2 shRNA. The S1P1 agonist, CYM-5442 (1 mg/kg), was injected intraperitoneally after surgery. S1P2 expression, pain thresholds, apoptosis signaling, inflammation, and oxidative stress in rats were then examined. We found that sciatic nerve injury downregulated S1P2 expression in the spinal cords of rats. S1P2 overexpression enhanced pain thresholds. In contrast, S1P2 knockdown decreased pain thresholds in rats exposed to CCI. CCI and S1P2 silencing increased secretion of interleukin-1β (IL-1β), IL-6, and CCL2, whereas S1P2 overexpression decreased. S1P2 impeded CCI-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and runt-related transcription factors 3 (RUNX3) downregulation, and S1P2 knockdown had the opposite effect. S1P2 overexpression suppressed Bax and active caspase 3 expression and promoted Bcl-2 expression, whereas loss of S1P2 reversed their expression. Additionally, S1P1 activation counteracted the effect of S1P2 on pain sensitivity. In conclusion, S1P2 is downregulated in CCI rats and may help modulate neuropathic pain via the ROS/RUNX3 pathway.
The control of all our motor outputs requires constant monitoring by proprioceptive sensory neurons (PSNs) that convey continuous muscle sensory inputs to the spinal motor network. Yet the molecular programs that control the establishment of this sensorimotor circuit remain largely unknown. The transcription factor RUNX3 is essential for the early steps of PSNs differentiation, making it difficult to study its role during later aspects of PSNs specification. Here, we conditionally inactivate Runx3 in PSNs after peripheral innervation and identify that RUNX3 is necessary for maintenance of cell identity of only a subgroup of PSNs, without discernable cell death. RUNX3 also controls the sensorimotor connection between PSNs and motor neurons at limb level, with muscle-by-muscle variable sensitivities to the loss of Runx3 that correlate with levels of RUNX3 in PSNs. Finally, we find that muscles and neurotrophin 3 signaling are necessary for maintenance of RUNX3 expression in PSNs. Hence, a transcriptional regulator that is crucial for specifying a generic PSN type identity after neurogenesis is later regulated by target muscle-derived signals to contribute to the specialized aspects of the sensorimotor connection selectivity.
Erratum in    Gastric Cancer. 2019 Nov 15;:
OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to assess the methylation status of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) genes in paired tissue and serum samples of colorectal cancer (CRC), adenomatous, and control subjects and elucidate the association between methylation status on RUNX3 and SFRP1 mRNA expression.METHODS: Methylation status of RUNX3 and SFRP1 in paired tissue and serum samples and RUNX3 and SFRP1 mRNA expression in tissue from 85 patients with CRC, 40 with adenoma, and 40 healthy controls were determined using methylation-specific PCR and reverse transcription PCR.RESULTS: The frequency RUNX3 and SFRP1 genes methylation was significantly higher in both tissues and serum of CRC patients and was significantly associated with absence of its corresponding mRNA expression. The concordance between tissue and serum methylation status was 94.4% for RUNX3 and 94.3% for SFRP1. Tissue RUNX3 methylation status detected CRC with 63.53% sensitivity and 80.00% specificity, while serum RUNX3 methylation status detected CRC with 60.00% sensitivity and 82.50% specificity. Tissue SFRP1 methylation status showed a sensitivity of 82.35% and specificity of 65.00%, while serum SFRP1 methylation status showed a sensitivity of 77.65% and specificity of 70.00% in detection of CRC. RUNX3/SFRP1/carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) panel identified CRC with sensitivity of 89.41% in tissue and 84.71% in serum.CONCLUSION: Our results verified the reliability of using serum RUNX3 and SFRP1 methylation status as a noninvasive biomarker for diagnosis of CRC and that combined detection of RUNX3/SFRP1/CEA panel might be a promising strategy for early detection of CRC.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The roles of microRNA(miR)-106b-5p in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remain unclear. We aimed here to investigate the clinical significance of miR-106b-5p expression in HCC and its underlying mechanisms.METHODS: Expression levels of miR-106b-5p in 108 HCC clinical samples by quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR. Associations of miR-106b-5p expression with various clinicopathological features and patients' prognosis were evaluated by Chi-square test, Kaplan-Meier, and Cox proportional regression analyses, respectively. The target gene of miR-106b-5p and their functions in HCC cells were investigated by luciferase reporter, CCK-8, and Transwell Matrigel invasion assays.RESULTS: miR-106b-5p expression was markedly higher in HCC tissues than in noncancerous adjacent liver tissues (P < .001). miR-106b-5p upregulation was significantly associated with advanced TNM stage (P = .02), short recurrence-free (P = .005), and overall (P = .001) survivals. Importantly, miR-106b-5p expression was an independent predictor of poor prognosis (P < .05). RUNX3 was identified as a direct target gene of miR-106b-5p in HCC cells. Functionally, miR-106b-5p upregulation promoted the viability and invasion of HCC cells, while enforced RUNX3 expression reversed the oncogenic effects of miR-106b-5p overexpression.CONCLUSIONS: miR-106b-5p may serve as a potent prognostic marker for tumor recurrence and survival of HCC patients. miR-106b-5p may exert an oncogenic role in HCC via regulating its target gene RUNX3.
RUNX transcription factors orchestrate many different aspects of biology, including basic cellular and developmental processes, stem cell biology and tumorigenesis. In this Primer, we introduce the molecular hallmarks of the three mammalian RUNX genes, RUNX1, RUNX2 and RUNX3, and discuss the regulation of their activities and their mechanisms of action. We then review their crucial roles in the specification and maintenance of a wide array of tissues during embryonic development and adult homeostasis.
Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) frequently invades the maxillary or mandibular bone, and this bone invasion is closely associated with poor prognosis and survival. Here, we show that CCL28 functions as a negative regulator of OSCC bone invasion. CCL28 inhibited invasion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and its inhibition of EMT was characterized by induced E-cadherin expression and reduced nuclear localization of β-catenin in OSCC cells with detectable RUNX3 expression levels. CCL28 signaling via CCR10 increased retinoic acid receptor-β (RARβ) expression by reducing the interaction between RARα and HDAC1. In addition, CCL28 reduced RANKL production in OSCC and osteoblastic cells and blocked RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis in osteoclast precursors. Intraperitoneally administered CCL28 inhibited tumor growth and osteolysis in mouse calvaria and tibia inoculated with OSCC cells. RARβ expression was also increased in tumor tissues. In patients with OSCC, low CCL28, CCR10, and RARβ expression levels were highly correlated with bone invasion. Patients with OSCC who had higher expression of CCL28, CCR10, or RARβ had significantly better overall survival. These findings suggest that CCL28, CCR10, and RARβ are useful markers for the prediction and treatment of OSCC bone invasion. Furthermore, CCL28 upregulation in OSCC cells or CCL28 treatment can be a therapeutic strategy for OSCC bone invasion.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to serve a role in tumorigenic programs. The dysregulated expression of miR‑301a‑3p may affect the progression of various types of human cancer; however, the expression and the role of miR‑301a‑3p in prostate cancer are still unclear. The present study aimed to clarify the role and molecular mechanism of miR‑301a‑3p in prostate cancer. The results demonstrated that the expression of miR‑301a‑3p was significantly upregulated in human prostate cancer tissues and in several prostate cancer cell lines. In vitro overexpression of miR‑301a‑3p notably increased prostate cancer cell proliferation and invasion. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) may be a target of miR‑301a‑3p, which was confirmed by Dual‑luciferase reporter assay. Western blot analysis also demonstrated that miR‑301a‑3p regulated the protein expression levels of RUNX3. In addition, the results indicated that miR‑301a‑3p may regulate the Wnt signaling pathway, and rescue experiments indicated that RUNX3 contributed to the effects of miR‑301a‑3p on cell proliferation and invasion through Wnt signaling. In conclusion, these findings suggested that miR‑301a‑3p may promote prostate cancer cell invasion and proliferation by targeting RUNX3, and provided insight into understanding prostate cancer pathogenesis. miR‑301a‑3p may be a potential therapeutic candidate to treat prostate cancer.
BACKGROUND: Gliomas are the most common and aggressive among primary malignant brain tumours with significant inter- and intratumour heterogeneity in histology, molecular profile, and patient outcome. However, molecular targets that could provide reliable diagnostic and prognostic information on this type of cancer are currently unknown. Recent studies show that certain phenotypes of gliomas such as malignancy, resistance to therapy, and relapses are associated with the epigenetic alterations of tumour-specific genes. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is feasible tumour suppressor gene since its inactivation was shown to be related to carcinogenesis.AIM: The aim of the study was to elucidate RUNX3 changes in different regulation levels of molecular biology starting from epigenetics to function in particular cases of astrocytic origin tumours of different grade evaluating significance of molecular changes of RUNX3 for patient clinical characteristics as well as evaluate RUNX3 reexpression effect to GBM cells.METHODS: The methylation status and protein expression levels of RUNX3 were measured by methylation-specific PCR and Western blot in 136 and 72 different malignancy grade glioma tissues, respectively. Lipotransfection and MTT were applied for proliferation assessment in U87-MG cells.RESULTS: We found that RUNX3 was highly methylated and downregulated in GBM. RUNX3 promoter methylation was detected in 69.4% of GBM (n=49) as compared to 0 to 17.2% in I-III grade astrocytomas (n=87). Weighty lower RUNX3 protein level was observed in GMB specimens compared to grade II-III astrocytomas. Correlation test revealed a weak but significant link among Runx3 methylation and protein level. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that increased RUNX3 methylation and low protein level were both associated with shorter patient survival (p<0.05). Reexpression of RUNX3 in U87-MG cells significantly reduced glioma cell viability compared to control transfection.CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate that RUNX3 gene methylation and protein expression downregulation are glioma malignancy dependent and contribute to tumour progression.
Effect of Runx3 gene on the cell proliferation and invasion of rectal cancer was investigated to explore potential new targets for targeted treatment of rectal cancer. The Runx3 overexpression group (OE group), blank plasmid control group, negative control and blank group of the rectal cancer HRC-9698 cell strain were set. The overexpressed Runx3 plasmid was transfected in OE group; the empty plasmid was transfected in blank plasmid control group; only liposome Lipofectamine was added to negative control group; only 1640 medium was used in blank group. RT-qPCR was used for detection of the mRNA expression of Runx3 in different groups; CCK-8 kit for detection of cell proliferation in different groups; Transwell chamber test for detection of cell strain invasion in different groups. The mRNA expression of Runx3 gene in OE group was the highest, significantly higher than that in blank plasmid control group, negative control and blank group (P<0.01). The OD values of overexpressed Runx3 at 96 h after transfection in OE group was significantly lower than each control group (P<0.01). At the same time-point, pairwise comparison in each group found that OE group was significantly lower than blank plasmid control, negative control and blank groups (all P<0.01). In the invasion experiment, the number of invasion cells in OE, blank plasmid control, negative control and blank groups were 38.63±9.33, 107.87±5.66, 110.93±4.33 and 112.86±6.66, respectively. OE group was significantly lower than each control group (P<0.01). Overexpression of Runx3 gene in vitro inhibits the cell proliferation of rectal cancer and blocks the cell invasion and metastasis. This study provides a new idea and a new molecular therapeutic target for molecular targeted therapy of rectal cancer.
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the methylation of RUNX3 and RASSF1A gene promoter regions as a marker to distinguish between benign and malignant of small solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN) ≤10 mm in size.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 147 patients with pathologically confirmed SPNs were enrolled. DNA samples were extracted from biopsy tissues or serum. Methylation of RUNX3 and RASSF1A gene promoter regions was detected by the methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. The expression of RUNX3 and RASSF1A in SPN tissues was detected by western blot.RESULTS: Of the 147 patients, 89 had benign SPNs and 58 had malignant SPNs. The rate of serum RUNX3 and RASSF1A gene methylation in malignant SPNs was significantly higher than that in benign SPNs (65.5% vs. 12.3%, and 67.2% vs. 10.1%, respectively; P < 0.05). The expression of RUNX3 and RASSF1A in malignant SPN tissues was lower than that in benign SPN tissues. The hypermethylation status of RUNX3 or RASSF1A genes was not significantly associated with age, gender, and smoking.CONCLUSIONS: The methylation level of the RUNX3 and RASSF1A gene promoter regions is a promising marker for assessing SPNs.
Expression of RUNX3 gene and miR-363 in colorectal cancer was studied to explore its relationship with clinicopathological characteristics of colorectal cancer and to analyze the value of RUNX3 combined with miR-363 in the diagnosis of colorectal cancer. In total, 85 patients diagnosed with colorectal cancer in the First Peoples Hospital of Xiaoshan Hangzhou from March 2014 to July 2016 were the experiment group. Seventy healthy individuals who underwent physical examination were the control group. RT-qPCR was used to detect the expression levels of RUNX3 gene and miR-363 in peripheral blood of the two groups. The relationship between the expression of RUNX3 and miR-363 with its clinicopathological characteristics was analyzed as well. The expression of RUNX3 in the experiment group was significantly lower than that in the control group (P<0.05). The expression level of miR-363 was significantly lower than in the control group (P<0.05). However, there was a correlation with tumor size, degree of differentiation, lymph node metastasis, depth of invasion and clinical stages (P<0.05). RUNX3 and miR-363 were significantly positively correlated with the degree of differentiation (r=0.7381, r=0.5375; P<0.05); RUNX3 and miR-363 were significantly negatively correlated with clinical stages (r=-0.7167, -0.6700; P<0.05). The area under the ROC curve of the combined test was larger than the single test. The expression of RUNX3 gene and miR-363 in peripheral blood of patients with colorectal cancer was lower than in the normal controls. The low expression of RUNX3 and miR-363 was closely related to various biological behaviors of colorectal cancer. A potential reference is provided for the evaluation of patients with colorectal cancer and expected to have an important guiding effect in the treatment of colorectal cancer. Moreover, combined test of RUNX3 and miR-363 has important significance in the diagnosis and treatment evaluation of colorectal cancer.
Preeclampsia (PE) is a disorder affecting 2-10% of pregnancies and has a major role for perinatal and maternal mortality and morbidity. PE can be occurred by initiation of new hypertension combined with proteinuria after 20 weeks gestation, as well as various reasons such as inflammatory cytokines, poor trophoblast invasion can be related with PE disease. Environmental factors can cause epigenetic changes including DNA methylation, microRNAs (miRNAs), and histone modification that may be related to different diseases such as PE. Abnormal DNA methylation during placentation is the most important epigenetic factor correlated with PE. Moreover, changes in histone modification like acetylation and also the effect of overregulation or low regulation of miRNAs or long noncoding RNAs on variety signaling pathways can be resulted in PE. The aim of this review is to describe of studies about epigenetic changes in PE and its therapeutic strategies.
Memory CD8+ T cells have the ability to provide lifelong immunity against pathogens. Although memory features generally arise after challenge with a foreign antigen, naïve CD8 single positive (SP) thymocytes may acquire phenotypic and functional characteristics of memory cells in response to cytokines such as interleukin-4. This process is associated with the induction of the T-box transcription factor Eomesodermin (EOMES). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain ill-defined. Using epigenomic profiling, we show that these innate memory CD8SP cells acquire only a portion of the active enhancer repertoire of conventional memory cells. This reprograming is secondary to EOMES recruitment, mostly to RUNX3-bound enhancers. Furthermore, EOMES is found within chromatin-associated complexes containing BRG1 and promotes the recruitment of this chromatin remodelling factor. Also, the in vivo acquisition of EOMES-dependent program is BRG1-dependent. In conclusion, our results support a strong epigenetic basis for the EOMES-driven establishment of CD8+ T cell innate memory program.
Functional knockdown of zebrafish tbx5a causes hypoplasia or aplasia of pectoral fins. This study aimed to assess developmental pectoral fin anomalies in tbx5a morpholino knockdown zebrafish embryos. The expression of cartilage-related genes in the tbx5a morphant was analyzed by DNA microarray, immunostaining, and thin-section histology to examine the detailed distribution of the extracellular matrix (ECM) during different pectoral fin developmental stages. Chondrogenic condensation (CC) in the tbx5a morpholino knockdown group was barely recognizable at 37 h postfertilization (hpf); the process from CC to endoskeleton formation was disrupted at 48 hpf, and the endoskeleton was only loosely formed at 72 hpf. Microarrays identified 18 downregulated genes in tbx5a-deficient embryos, including 2 fin morphogenesis-related (cx43, bbs7), 4 fin development-related (hoxc8a, hhip, axin1, msxb), and 12 cartilage development-related (mmp14a, sec23b, tfap2a, slc35b2, dlx5a, dlx1a, tfap2b, fmr1, runx3, cdh2, lect1, acvr2a, mmp14b) genes, at 24 and 30 hpf. The increase in apoptosis-related proteins (BAD and BCL2) in the tbx5a morphant influenced the cellular component of pectoral fins and resulted in chondrocyte reduction throughout the different CC phases. Furthermore, tbx5a knockdown interfered with ECM formation in pectoral fins, affecting glycosaminoglycans, fibronectin, hyaluronic acid (HA), and N-cadherin. Our results provide evidence that the pectoral fin phenotypic anomaly induced by tbx5a knockdown is related to disruption of the mesoderm and ECM, consequently interfering with mesoderm migration, CC, and subsequent endoskeleton formation.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) with CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) is recognized as a subgroup of CRC that shows association with particular genetic defects and patient outcomes. We analyzed CIMP status of 229 individuals with CRC using an eight-marker panel (CACNA1G, CDKN2A, CRABP1, IGF2, MLH1, NEUROG1, RUNX3 and SOCS1); CIMP-(+) tumors were defined as having ≥ 5 methylated markers. Patients were divided into individuals who developed a "unique" CRC, which were subclassified into early-onset CRC (EOCRC) and late-onset CRC (LOCRC), and patients with multiple primary CRCs subclassified into synchronous CRC (SCRC) and metachronous CRC (MCRC). We found 9 (15.2%) CIMP-(+) EOCRC patients related with the proximal colon (p = 0.008), and 19 (26.8%) CIMP-(+) LOCRC patients associated with tumor differentiation (p = 0.045), MSI status (p = 0.021) and BRAF mutation (p = 0.001). Thirty-five (64.8%) SCRC patients had at least one CIMP-(+) tumor and 20 (44.4%) MCRC patients presented their first tumor as CIMP-(+). Thirty-nine (72.2%) SCRC patients showed concordant CIMP status in their simultaneous tumors. The differences in CIMP-(+) frequency between groups may reflect the importance of taking into account several criteria for the development of multiple primary neoplasms. Additionally, the concordance between synchronous tumors suggests CIMP status is generally maintained in SCRC patients.
Granulosa cell tumors of the ovary (GCT) are the predominant type of ovarian sex cord/stromal tumor. Although prognosis is generally favorable, the outcome for advanced and recurrent GCT is poor. A better understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of GCT is critical to developing effective therapeutic strategies. Here we have examined the potential role of the runt-related transcription factor RUNX3. There are only two GCT cell lines available. While RUNX3 is silenced in the GCT cell line KGN cells, it is highly expressed in another GCT cell line, COV434 cells. Re-expression of RUNX3 promotes proliferation, anchorage-independent growth, and motility in KGN cells in vitro and tumor formation in mice in vivo. Furthermore, expression of a dominant negative form of RUNX3 decreases proliferation of COV434 cells. To address a potential mechanism of action, we examined expression of cyclin D2 and the CDK inhibitor p27Kip1, two cell cycle regulators known to be critical determinants of GCT cell proliferation. We found that RUNX3 upregulates the expression of cyclin D2 at the mRNA and protein level, and decreases the level of the p27Kip1 protein, but not p27Kip1 mRNA. In conclusion, we demonstrate that RUNX proteins are expressed in GCT cell lines and human GCT specimens, albeit at variable levels, and RUNX3 may play an oncogenic role in a subset of GCTs.
Valproic acid (VPA) has been shown to regulate the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but it is not known whether this drug can affect the neuronal responses to BDNF. In the present study, we show that in retinoic acid-differentiated SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, prolonged exposure to VPA reduces the expression of the BDNF receptor TrkB at the protein and mRNA levels and inhibits the intracellular signaling, neurotrophic activity, and prosurvival function of BDNF. VPA downregulates TrkB and curtails BDNF-induced signaling also in differentiated Kelly and LAN-1 neuroblastoma cells and primary mouse cortical neurons. The VPA effect is mimicked by several histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors, including the class I HDAC inhibitors entinostat and romidepsin. Conversely, the class II HDAC inhibitor MC1568, the HDAC6 inhibitor tubacin, the HDAC8 inhibitor PCI-34051, and the VPA derivative valpromide have no effect. In neuroblastoma cells and primary neurons both VPA and entinostat increase the cellular levels of the transcription factor RUNX3, which negatively regulates TrkB gene expression. Treatment with RUNX3 siRNA attenuates VPA-induced RUNX3 elevation and TrkB downregulation. VPA, entinostat, HDAC1 depletion by siRNA, and 3-deazaneplanocin A (DZNep), an inhibitor of the polycomb repressor complex 2 (PRC2), decrease the PRC2 core component EZH2, a RUNX3 suppressor. Like VPA, HDAC1 depletion and DZNep increase RUNX3 and decrease TrkB expression. These results indicate that VPA downregulates TrkB through epigenetic mechanisms involving the EZH2/RUNX3 axis and provide evidence that this effect implicates relevant consequences with regard to BDNF efficacy in stimulating intracellular signaling and functional responses. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The tropomyosin-related kinase receptor B (TrkB) mediates the stimulatory effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on neuronal growth, differentiation, and survival and is highly expressed in aggressive neuroblastoma and other tumors. Here we show that exposure to valproic acid (VPA) downregulates TrkB expression and functional activity in retinoic acid-differentiated human neuroblastoma cell lines and primary mouse cortical neurons. The effects of VPA are mimicked by other histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors and HDAC1 knockdown and appear to be mediated by an epigenetic mechanism involving the upregulation of RUNX3, a suppressor of TrkB gene expression. TrkB downregulation may have relevance for the use of VPA as a potential therapeutic agent in neuroblastoma and other pathologies characterized by an excessive BDNF/TrkB signaling.
OBJECTIVE: Acute lung injury (ALI) is the most common complication of severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in the early stage, which causes systemic inflammatory response and organ damage. Human runt-associated transcription factor 3 gene (RUNX3) has been reported to participate in various inflammatory diseases. However, the exact role of RUNX3 in SAP and its-related ALI remains unclear.MATERIALS AND METHODS: To establish the model of SAP, rats were retrogradely injected with 5% sodium taurocholate (1 mg/kg body weight) into the biliary-pancreatic duct. Cytokine level in serum was measured by ELISA, and the polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) was isolated from rat's blood 12 h-post SAP induction.RESULTS: We found RUNX3 expression was significantly decreased with the progression of SAP. Both pancreas damages and cytokine production abilities were reduced in RUXN3-overexpressed SAP rats compared with control rats. Moreover, SAP-associated ALI was also improved upon RUNX3 overexpression in SAP rats. RUNX3 upregulation enhanced PMN apoptosis and inhibited Janus kinase 2/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (JAK2/STAT3) phosphorylation.CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that RUNX3 protects against SAP and SAP-associated ALI through controlling PMN apoptosis and regulating JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathway. RUNX3 could be regarded as a potent therapeutic target in SAP for future studies.
Disabled tumor suppressor genes and hyperactive oncogenes greatly contribute to cell fates during cancer development because of their genetic alterations such as somatic mutations. However, little is known about how tumor suppressor genes react to diverse oncogenes during tumor progression. Our previous study showed that RUNX3 inhibits invasiveness by preventing vascular endothelial growth factor secretion and suppressed endothelial cell growth and tube formation in colorectal cancer (CRC). Hedgehog signaling is crucial for the physiological maintenance and self-renewal of stem cells, and its deregulation is responsible for their tumor development. The mechanisms that inhibit this pathway during proliferation remain poorly understood. Here, we found that the tumor suppressor RUNX3 modulates tumorigenesis in response to cancer cells induced by inhibiting oncogene GLI1 ubiquitination. Moreover, we demonstrated that RUNX3 and GLI1 expression were inversely correlated in CRC cells and tissues. We observed a direct interaction between RUNX3 and GLI1, promoting ubiquitination of GLI1 at the intracellular level. Increased ubiquitination of GLI1 was induced by the E3 ligase β-TrCP. This novel RUNX3-dependent regulatory loop may limit the extent and duration of Hedgehog signaling during extension of the tumor initiation capacity. On the basis of our results, identification of agents that induce RUNX3 may be useful for developing new and effective therapies for CRC.
Periodontitis leads to destruction of periodontal ligament, cementum and alveolar bone. Regeneration of periodontal tissue is dependent on mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) present in the periodontal ligament, and transcription factors determine the direction of MSC differentiation. The present study was conducted to investigate the transcription factors that are crucial for maintaining the characteristics of the periodontal ligament. The mRNA levels of several transcription factors were measured in cultured human periodontal ligament (HPDL) cells, human gingival fibroblasts and osteoblast-like Saos2 cells. HPDL cells were transfected for 72 h with siTwist2, siKlf12, or siMix (siTwist2, siPax9, and siKlf12). The cells were then harvested and subjected to real-time PCR and Western blotting. siTwist2 suppressed the levels of Twist2, Sox2 and Col1a1 mRNAs, and increased those of Sox5 and aggrecan mRNAs. siKlf12 decreased the mRNA levels of Klf12, Runx3, Zfp521, and Stab2, and increased those of Sox2, Klf4, and the MSC markers CD90 and CD105. These results suggest that transfection with siMix and siTwist2 induced chondrogenesis, and that siKlf12 induced the differentiation of MSC in HPDL cells. Thus, inhibition of Twist2 or Klf12 induced the differentiation of chondrogenic or mesenchymal stem cells in this setting, suggesting that the characteristics of HPDL cells may be altered by inhibition of specific transcription factors.
The biological mechanisms through which adherence to Mediterranean Diet (MD) protects against colon cancer (CC) are poorly understood. Evidence suggests that chronic inflammation may be implicated in the pathway. Both diet and CC are related to epigenetic regulation. We performed a nested case-control study on 161 pairs from the Italian component of the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) cohort, in which we looked for the methylation signals in DNA extracted from leucocytes associated with both CC and MD in 995 CpGs located in 48 inflammation genes. The DNA methylation signals detected in this analysis were validated in a subgroup of 47 case-control pairs and further replicated (where validated) in 95 new pairs by means of pyrosequencing. Among the CpG sites selected a-priori in inflammation-related genes, seven CpG sites were found to be associated with CC status and with MD, in line with its protective effect. Only two CpG sites (cg17968347-SERPINE1 and cg20674490-RUNX3) were validated using bisulphite pyrosequencing and, after replication, we found that DNA methylation of cg20674490-RUNX3 may be a potential molecular mediator explaining the protective effect of MD on CC onset. The use of a 'meet-in-the-middle' approach to identify the overlap between exposure and predictive markers of disease is innovative in studies on the relationship between diet and cancer, in which exposure assessment is difficult and the mechanisms through which the nutrients exert their protective effect is largely unknown.
Healthy bone marrow progenitors yield a co-ordinated balance of hematopoietic lineages. This balance shifts with aging toward enhanced granulopoiesis with diminished erythropoiesis and lymphopoiesis, changes which likely contribute to the development of bone marrow disorders in the elderly. In this study, RUNX3 was identified as a hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell factor whose levels decline with aging in humans and mice. This decline is exaggerated in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from subjects diagnosed with unexplained anemia of the elderly. Hematopoietic stem cells from elderly unexplained anemia patients had diminished erythroid but unaffected granulocytic colony forming potential. Knockdown studies revealed human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells to be strongly influenced by RUNX3 levels, with modest deficiencies abrogating erythroid differentiation at multiple steps while retaining capacity for granulopoiesis. Transcriptome profiling indicated control by RUNX3 of key erythroid transcription factors, including KLF1 and GATA1 These findings thus implicate RUNX3 as a participant in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell aging, and a key determinant of erythroid-myeloid lineage balance.
Comment on    Ann Rheum Dis. 2019 Sep;78(9):1249-1259.
Studies have examined gene expression changes in Sézary syndrome (SS), but disease pathogenesis remains largely unknown, and diagnosis and treatment are difficult. TOX is a transcription factor involved in CD4+ T-cell development with downstream effects on RUNX3, a known tumor suppressor gene. We sought to identify genes involved in SS disease pathogenesis with the potential to enable diagnosis and treatment. We utilized previously reported transcriptome sequencing data to construct a list of candidate genes, which was narrowed using pathway analysis. qRT-PCR confirmed TOX upregulation (>7 fold increase) in SS (n = 5), as well as two established markers, PLS3 and KIRD3DL2. We also evaluated expression of members of the TOX-RUNX3 pathway and confirmed downregulation of RUNX3 (0.59 fold decrease) and upregulation of GATA3 (2 fold increase). Moreover, TOX and RUNX3 expression were significantly inversely proportional. Using siRNA to suppress TOX, we demonstrated that TOX knockdown rescues RUNX3 expression and reduces cell viability. We evaluated TOX protein expression in paraffin-embedded skin biopsies with immunohistochemistry, showing nuclear staining of CTCL infiltrates, suggesting it is a candidate diagnostic biomarker. Further studies validating our findings and evaluating the TOX-RUNX3 pathway and the role of TOX as a disease marker and therapeutic target are warranted.
Comment in    Ann Rheum Dis. 2019 Sep;78(9):1149-1150.
BACKGROUND: Our previous report demonstrated that genetic ablation of miR-301a reduces Kras-driven lung tumorigenesis in mice. However, the impact of miR-301a on host anti-tumor immunity remains unexplored. Here we assessed the underlying molecular mechanisms of miR-301a in the tumor microenvironment.METHODS: The differentially expressed genes were identified by using deep sequencing. The immune cell counts, and cytokines expression were analyzed by realtime PCR, immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry. The role of miR-301a/Runx3 in lung tumor was evaluated on cell growth, migration and invasion. The function of miR-301a/Runx3 in regulating tumor microenvironment and tumor metastasis were evaluated in Kras transgenic mice and B16/LLC1 syngeneic xenografts tumor models.RESULTS: In this work, we identified 1166 up-regulated and 475 down-regulated differentially expressed genes in lung tumor tissues between KrasLA2 and miR-301a-/-; KrasLA2 mice. Immune response and cell cycle were major pathways involved in the protective role of miR-301a deletion in lung tumorigenesis. Overexpression of the miR-301a target, Runx3, was an early event identified in miR-301a-/-; KrasLA2 mice compared to WT-KrasLA2 mice. We found that miR-301a deletion enhanced CD8+ T cell accumulation and IFN-γ production in the tumor microenvironment and mediated antitumor immunity. Further studies revealed that miR-301a deficiency in the tumor microenvironment effectively reduced tumor metastasis by elevating Runx3 and recruiting CD8+ T cells, whereas miR-301a knockdown in tumor cells themselves restrained cell migration by elevating Runx3 expression.CONCLUSIONS: Our findings further underscore that miR-301a facilitates tumor microenvironment antitumor immunity by Runx3 suppression in lung tumorigenesis.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still an unresolved source of tumor-related death internationally. Current studies have discovered that microRNAs (miRNAs) are associated with diverse cancers development, including NSCLC. Our paper focused on the functional character of miR-4286 in NSCLC. miR-4286 level in 68 cases of NSCLC tissues, matched neighboring nontumor tissues and different cancer cell lines were inspected by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). The connection concerning miR-4286 expression and clinicopathological features of patients with NSCLC were further determined. After knockdown or overexpression of miR-4286, cell viability, cell cycle, and/or apoptotic cells were examined by 3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) and flow cytometry assay, respectively. Moreover, the cell cycle- and apoptosis-related proteins were estimated by qRT-PCR and Western blot. In comparison with the matched nontumor tissues, miR-4286 was significantly enhanced in lung malignancy tissues and different cell lines. miR-4286 expression was related with the tumor-node-metastasis stage, lymphatic metastasis, and distant metastasis. Cell viability was ominously weakened by suppression of miR-4286 in A549 cells, whereas was statistically upregulated by overexpression of miR-4286 in NCI-H1299 cells. Additionally, we detected that suppression of miR-4286 tempted cell cycle arrest in G1 stage and fortified apoptosis in A549 cells. Runx3 was recognized as one target gene of miR-4286, and the impacts of suppression of miR-4286 on cell viability and apoptosis were through regulation of Runt-related transcription factor 3. Our study suggests that miR-4286 overexpression represents a tumor promoter role in NSCLC cells.
Diffuse Large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive disease with heterogeneous outcome and marked variable response to chemotherapy. We assessed promoter hypermethylation (PM) for a panel of tumor suppressor genes in 75 DLBCLs compared to 20 lymphoid hyperplasia (LH) and 30 normal control, using methylation specific PCR. Results were correlated to patients' clinic-pathological characteristics, immunophenotyping, and patients' outcome. DAPK1, RUNX3, MT1G, MGMT, CDH1 and p16 PM were detected in 38.7% (29/75), 49.3% (37/75), 46.7% (35/75), 44% (33/75), 49.3% (37/75) and 42.7% (32/75);respectively, of DLBCL patients compared to LH group (P < 0.05). Aberrant PM of RUNX3, MGMT, CDH1 and p16 was significantly higher in non-germinal central B-cell like (non-GCB) compared to GCB (58.3% vs. 33.3%, 56.2% vs. 22.2, 62.5% vs. 25.9, and 56.2% vs. 18.5%, respectively). PM of studies genes in DLBCL associated significantly with worse survival outcome and resistance to chemotherapy (P ≤ 0.01). In non-GCB group, DAPK1, MT1G, RUNX3, CDH1 and p16 PM associated significantly with reduced DFS (P ≤ 0.004) and OS (P ≤ 0.015). Multivariate analysis indicated that RUNX3 and CDH1 PM were independent prognostic factors for OS (P = 0.03 and 0.04; respectively), while DAPK1, RUNX3 and MT1G PM were independent prognostic factors for DFS (P = 0.002, 0.037& 0.007; respectively). DAPK1, RUNX3, MT1G, CDH1 and p16 PM are promising prognostic and/or predictive markers for non-GCB independent of IPI. Upregulation of those genes using new demethylating agents is a promising approach that sensitize chemoresistant DLBCL patients, especially the non-GCB subtype.
Aging is associated with functional decline of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) as well as an increased risk of myeloid malignancies. We performed an integrative characterization of epigenomic and transcriptomic changes, including single-cell RNA sequencing, during normal human aging. Lineage-CD34+CD38- cells [HSC-enriched (HSCe)] undergo age-associated epigenetic reprogramming consisting of redistribution of DNA methylation and reductions in H3K27ac, H3K4me1, and H3K4me3. This reprogramming of aged HSCe globally targets developmental and cancer pathways that are comparably altered in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) of all ages, encompassing loss of 4,646 active enhancers, 3,091 bivalent promoters, and deregulation of several epigenetic modifiers and key hematopoietic transcription factors, such as KLF6, BCL6, and RUNX3. Notably, in vitro downregulation of KLF6 results in impaired differentiation, increased colony-forming potential, and changes in expression that recapitulate aging and leukemia signatures. Thus, age-associated epigenetic reprogramming may form a predisposing condition for the development of age-related AML. SIGNIFICANCE: AML, which is more frequent in the elderly, is characterized by epigenetic deregulation. We demonstrate that epigenetic reprogramming of human HSCs occurs with age, affecting cancer and developmental pathways. Downregulation of genes epigenetically altered with age leads to impairment in differentiation and partially recapitulates aging phenotypes.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 983.
We investigated the activity of chondrogenic markers and variation of methylation patterns in equine cartilaginous cells cultivated in monolayer. The transcriptional and epigenetic effect of the long-term culture of chondrocytes has been evaluated using several passages of chondrocyte cell-lines derived from equine articular cartilage. Using 3 genes as endogenous control we tested the expression of 7 genes important for different stages of chondrocyte differentiation and maturation. CpG islands in RUNX3 locus were inspected for the evaluation of differential methylation state of passaged cell-lines. The general decline of transcript abundance of marker loci was detected in passage 11 which is the sign of dedifferentiation of cultivated chondrocytes in prolonged monolayer culture. Passages 13 and 14 were characterized by the upregulation of a number of genes, possibly due to the heterogeneity of developed cell lines at this stage of the culture. Instead, gradual increase of methylation percent at particular CpG sites of RUNX3 locus was associated with the growing number of passage. This finding led us to the conclusion that epigenetic alterations better describe the stage of cultivated chondrocytes.
Aim: To investigate the methylation status and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of cancer-associated genes in ulcerative colitis (UC) patients and explore the potential mechanism for high cancer risk of UC. Methods: A total of 103 patients were enrolled in our study, which included 30 healthy subjects, 41 patients with early-stage UC, and 32 patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Methylation status of cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) and human RUNT-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) genes in colonic mucosa from 3 groups of subjects were detected by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The SNPs TNF-α rs1800629 and IL-1 rs1143627 were genotyped by PCR and direct sequencing. Results: The methylation rate of RUNX3 gene within CRC group was 35.7%, which was significantly higher than the other two groups (Healthy control 5.9%, UC 15.4%, p = .040). There was no significant difference in the methylation rate of RUNX3 between early-stage UC group and healthy control group (p = .633). The methylation rate of COX2 gene, the genotypes (GG, AG) and alleles (A, G) of rs1800629, and the genotypes (CC,CT,TT) and alleles (C,T) of rs1143627 were not statistically different among three groups. Conclusion: In the early stage of UC, the methylation rate of cancer-related genes RUNX3 and COX2 and SNPs TNF-α rs1800629 and IL-1 rs1143627 were not significantly different compared with healthy subjects. The methylation rate of RUNX3 in CRC increased, while the methylation rate of COX2 and SNPs TNF-α rs1800629 and IL-1 rs1143627 did not change significantly compared with the other two groups.
Patients with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) are predisposed to develop neurofibromas, but the underlying molecular mechanisms of neurofibromagenesis are not fully understood. We showed dual genetic deletion of Runx1 and Runx3 in Schwann cells (SCs) and SC precursors delayed neurofibromagenesis and prolonged mouse survival. We identified peripheral myelin protein 22 (Pmp22/Gas3) related to neurofibroma initiation. Knockdown of Pmp22 with short hairpin RNAs increased Runx1fl/fl;Runx3fl/fl;Nf1fl/fl;DhhCre tumor-derived sphere numbers and enabled significantly more neurofibroma-like microlesions on transplantation. Conversely, overexpression of Pmp22 in mouse neurofibroma SCs decreased cell proliferation. Mechanistically, RUNX1/3 regulated alternative promoter usage and induced levels of protein expression of Pmp22 to control SC growth. Last, pharmacological inhibition of RUNX/core-binding factor β (CBFB) activity significantly reduced neurofibroma volume in vivo. Thus, we identified a signaling pathway involving RUNX1/3 suppression of Pmp22 in neurofibroma initiation and/or maintenance. Targeting disruption of RUNX/CBFB interaction might provide a novel therapy for patients with neurofibroma.
The cellular decision regarding whether to undergo proliferation or death is made at the restriction (R)-point, which is disrupted in nearly all tumors. The identity of the molecular mechanisms that govern the R-point decision is one of the fundamental issues in cell biology. We found that early after mitogenic stimulation, RUNX3 binds to its target loci, where it opens chromatin structure by sequential recruitment of Trithorax group proteins and cell-cycle regulators to drive cells to the R-point. Soon after, RUNX3 closes these loci by recruiting Polycomb repressor complexes, causing the cell to pass through the R-point toward S phase. If the RAS signal is constitutively activated, RUNX3 inhibits cell cycle progression by maintaining R-point-associated genes in an open structure. Our results identify RUNX3 as a pioneer factor for the R-point and reveal the molecular mechanisms by which appropriate chromatin modifiers are selectively recruited to target loci for appropriate R-point decisions.
OBJECTIVE: Asthma is a common chronic respiratory airway disease influenced by environmental factors and possibly their interaction with the human genome causing epigenetic changes. Epigenome-wide association studies (EWAS) have mainly investigated DNA methylation and its association with disease or traits, exposure factors or gene expression. This systematic review aimed to identify all EWAS assessing differentially methylated sites associated with asthma in humans.DESIGN: Structured systematic literature search following PRISMA guidelines, Newcastle-Ottawa Scale (NOS) for cohort studies was used for bias assessment.DATA SOURCES: We searched PubMed and Embase databases from 2005 to 2019.ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Epigenome-wide association studies testing association between differential methylation and asthma in humans.RESULTS: Overall, we identified 16 EWAS studies complying with our search criteria. Twelve studies were conducted on children, and 10 were conducted on sample sizes <150 subjects. Four hundred and nineteen CpGs were reported in children studies after correction for multiple testing. In the adult studies, thousands of differentially methylated sites were identified. Differential methylation in inflammatory-related genes correlated with higher levels of gene expressions of inflammatory modulators in asthma. Differentially methylated genes associated with asthma included SMAD3, SERPINC1, PROK1, IL13, RUNX3 and TIGIT. Forty-one CpGs were replicated at least once in blood samples, and 28 CpGs were replicated in nasal samples.CONCLUSION: Although many differentially methylated CpGs in genes known to be involved in asthma have been identified in EWAS to date, we conclude that further studies of larger sample sizes and analyses of differential methylation between different phenotypes are needed in order to comprehensively evaluate the role of epigenetic factors in the pathophysiology and heterogeneity of asthma, and the potential clinical utility to predict or classify patients with asthma.
BACKGROUND: Thyroid carcinoma is the most common endocrine malignancy worldwide. Changes in DNA methylation can cause silencing of normally active genes, especially tumour suppressor genes (TSG) or activation of normally silent genes.OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate the degree of promoter methylation for a panel of markers for thyroid neoplasms and to establish their relationship with thyroid oncogenesis.METHODS: To generate a comprehensive DNA methylation signature of TSGs involved in thyroid neoplasia, we use Human TSG EpiTect Methyl II Signature PCR Array-Qiagen for 24 samples (follicular adenomas and papillary thyroid carcinomas) compared with normal thyroid tissue. We extended the evaluation for three TSGs (TP73, WIF1, PDLIM4) using qMS-PCR. Statistical analysis was performed with GraphPad Prism.RESULTS: We noted four important genes NEUROG1, ESR1, RUNX3, MLH1, which presented methylated promoter in tumour samples compared to normal. We found new characteristic of thyroid tumours: methylation of TP73, WIF1 and PDLIM4 TSGs, which can contribute to thyroid neoplasia. A significant correlation between BRAF V600E mutation and RET/PTC rearrangements with TIMP3 and CDH13, RARB methylation, respectively was observed.CONCLUSIONS: TSGs promoter hypermethylation is a hallmark of cancer and a test that uses methylation quantification method is suitable for diagnosis and prognosis of thyroid cancer.
To date, miR-148-3p and DNMT1-recombinant human runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) axis have been linked to cell proliferation, migration, and invasion; however, their roles and relationships in human glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) are still not clear. Here we found that the expression of miR-148-3p in glioma tissues was decreased compared with adjacent nontumor tissues and correlated with WHO grade, tumor size, and prognosis as well as DNMT1 and RUNX3 expressions. Compared with NHA cells, the expression of miR-148-3p in U87 and U251 cells was also downregulated and accompanied with upregulation of DNMT1 and hypermethylation level of RUNX3 promoter region. miR-148-3p overexpression induced apoptosis and cell cycle arrest of U87 and U251 cells, and affected cell migration and invasion. miR-148-3p mimics effectively suppressed the expression of DNMT1 and methylation of RUNX3 promoter, finally upregulating RUNX3 expression. Mechanistically, the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of DNMT1 was a direct target of miR-148-3p. Overexpression of miR-148-3p or inhibition of DNMT1 induced the expression of E-cadherin and reduced the expressions of N-cadherin, vimentin, MMP-2, and MMP-9. In conclusion, miR-148-3p directly repressed the expression of DNMT1 and inhibited proliferation, migration, and invasion by regulating DNMT1-RUNX3 axis and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition in GBM. Our findings provide a new foundation for treatment of patients with GBM.
As the fifth most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer related deaths worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) causes up to one million deaths annually. Alcoholic steatohepatitis (ASH) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) are becoming the two major risk factors because both may develop liver fibrosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) if left untreated. However, compared with 3-10% of patients with ASH may progress to HCC annually, about only 0.5% NASH patients may progress to HCC annually. The present study is to clarify the protein expression differences of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) between ASH and NASH. In liver biopsied specimens from NASH and ASH patients, using an immunofluorescence method and morphometrically quantitating the fluorescence intensity, we studied the protein expression within hepatocytes cytoplasm of candidate TSGs including RUNX3, GSTP1, and RASSF1A. Compared with the control group of patients, the expression levels of all three proteins were upregulated in the ASH group of patients (p < .001 in all molecules). While RUNX3 was upregulated, GSTP1 and RASSF1 did not change in the NASH group of patients. The most important finding is that compared with the ASH group of patients, the expression levels of all three TSG proteins, RUNX3, GSTP1, and RASSF1, were significantly lower in the NASH group of patients (p < .001 in all three molecules). These results confirmed our previous finding that there are significant differences of many molecules including TSGs that changed in NASH compared to ASH. Thus, we conclude that there are significantly different TSGs and pathways involved during the pathogenesis of HCC development in NASH compared to ASH that may help to develop different strategies for prevention and treatment of NASH and ASH patients.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cancer globally; therefore, early diagnosis and surveillance of this cancer are of paramount importance. Current methods of CRC diagnosis rely heavily on endoscopy or radiological imaging. Noninvasive tests including serum detection of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and faecal occult blood testing (FOBT) are associated with low sensitivity and specificity, especially at early stages. DNA methylation biomarkers have recently been found to have higher accuracy in CRC detection and enhanced prediction of prognosis and chemotherapy response. The most widely studied biomarker in CRC is methylated septin 9 (SEPT9), which is the only FDA-approved methylation-based biomarker for CRC. Apart from SEPT9, other methylated biomarkers including tachykinin-1 (TAC1), somatostatin (SST), and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) have been shown to effectively detect CRC in a multitude of sample types. This review will discuss the performances of various methylated biomarkers used for CRC diagnosis and monitoring, when used alone or in combination.
BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a highly heterogeneous malignancy with various outcomes, and therefore needs better risk stratification tools to help select optimal therapeutic options.METHODS: In this study, we identify miRNAs that could predict clinical outcome in a heterogeneous AML population using TCGA dataset.RESULTS: We found that MiR-363 is a novel prognostic factor in AML patients undergoing chemotherapy. In multivariable analyses, high miR-363 remained predictive for shorter OS (HR = 2.349, P = 0.012) and EFS (HR = 2.082, P = 0.001) independent of other well-known prognostic factors. More importantly, allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) overcame the adverse outcomes related to high miR-363 expression. In gene expression profiling, high miR-363 expression was positively correlated with the amounts of leukemogenic transcription factors, including Myb, RUNX3, GATA3, IKZF3, ETS1 and MLLT3. Notably, we found that the in silico predicted target genes (EZH2, KLF6 and PTEN) of miR-363 were downregulated in association with high miR-363 expression.CONCLUSIONS: In summary, miR-363 expression may help identify patients in need of strategies to select the optimal therapy between chemotherapeutic and allo-HCST regimens. AML patients with high miR-363 expression may be highly recommended for early allo-HSCT regimen.
Chronic rejection acts as the most formidable obstacle for organ transplantation in clinical settings. Herein we demonstrated in a cardiac transplantation model that blockade of Janus kinase 2 (Jak2) provides protection for cardiac allografts against chronic rejection. Specifically, loss of Jak2 almost completely abolished the production of IFN-γ+ Th1 cells, while the percentage of Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Tregs) was significantly increased. As a result, loss of Jak2 significantly prolonged allograft survival (58 ± 30.6 days vs. 7 ± 0.3 days). Particularly, 4 out of 13 Jak2 deficient recipients (30%) showed long-term acceptance of allografts as manifested by the graft survival time > 100 days. Cellular studies revealed that Jak2 deficiency did not impact the intrinsic proliferative capability for CD4+ T cells in response to nonspecific polyclonal and allogenic stimulation. Mechanistic studies documented that the impaired Th1 development was caused by the attenuated IFN-γ/STAT1 and IL-12/STAT4 signaling along with repressed expression of Th1 transcription factors T-bet, Hlx and Runx3. However, the IL-2/STAT5 signaling remained intact, which ensured normal Treg development in Jak2-/- naïve CD4 T cells. Together, our data support that blockade of Jak2 may have therapeutic potential for prevention and treatment of allograft rejection in clinical settings.
BACKGROUND: Autofluorescence imaging (AFI) is useful for diagnosing colon neoplasms, but what affects the AFI intensity remains unclear. This study investigated the association between AFI and the histological characteristics, aberrant methylation status, and aberrant expression in colon neoplasms.METHODS: Fifty-three patients with colorectal neoplasms who underwent AFI were enrolled. The AFI intensity (F index) was compared with the pathological findings and gene alterations. The F index was calculated using an image analysis software program. The pathological findings were assessed by the tumor crypt density, cell densities, and N/C ratio. The aberrant methylation of p16, E-cadherin, Apc, Runx3, and hMLH1 genes was determined by a methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. The aberrant expression of p53 and Ki-67 was evaluated by immunohistochemical staining.RESULTS: An increased N/C ratio, the aberrant expression of p53, Ki-67, and the altered methylation of p16 went together with a lower F index. The other pathological findings and the methylation status showed no association with the F index.CONCLUSIONS: AFI reflects the nuclear enlargement of tumor cells, the cell proliferation ability, and the altered status of cell proliferation-related genes, indicating that AFI is a useful and practical method for predicting the dysplastic grade of tumor cells and cell proliferation.
Preeclampsia is a complex genetic disorder and its pathogenesis remains to be investigated. Single nucleotide polymorphisms serve important roles in genetic predisposition. The present study aimed to explore the association between runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene polymorphisms in severe preeclampsia (SPE) and clinical features.A total of 417 participants were enrolled in the present study. The rs2236852, rs7528484 and rs760805 polymorphisms of the RUNX3 gene were tested using the polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. Clinical information of patients and controls was collected. Relationship between clinical feature and different genotype was analyzed.Compared with rs2236852 GG genotype carriers, the odds ratios (OR) for the risk of SPE were 2.26 [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.24-4.12; P = .023] in AA genotype carriers. A significantly increased risk of SPE was associated with AG/AA genotypes compared with GG genotypes (OR, 1.74; 95% CI, 1.11-2.75; P = .015). AA homozygote carriers with SPE exhibited lower birth weight, shorter birth length and reduced incidence of hypoproteinemia compared with AG heterozygote carriers (P <.05). A significantly increased risk of SPE was determined to be associated with the rs7528484 CC genotype in codominant and recessive models (CC vs TT: OR, 3.70, 95% CI, 1.31-10.43, P = .01; CC vs TT/TC: OR, 3.98, 95% CI, 1.46-10.87, P = .003). Patients carrying C-allele (TC + CC) presented increased systolic pressure and an increased incidence of neonatal pneumonia compared with TT homozygote carriers (P <.05). Compared with rs760805 TT homozygote carriers, patients carrying AA homozygote exhibited significantly reduced 24 hours urinary protein levels, lower serum creatinine concentrations and a decreased incidence of neonatal asphyxia (P <.05).The present study suggested a genetic association between RUNX3 gene polymorphisms and SPE. The data provided a novel insight to guide future investigations.
PURPOSE: To investigate associations between CT imaging features, RUNX3 methylation level, and survival in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients were divided into high RUNX3 methylation and low RUNX3 methylation groups according to RUNX3 methylation levels (the threshold was identified by using X-tile). The CT scanning data from 106 ccRCC patients were retrospectively analyzed. The relationship between RUNX3 methylation level and overall survivals was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meyer analysis and Cox regression analysis (univariate and multivariate). The relationship between RUNX3 methylation level and CT features was evaluated using chi-square test and logistic regression analysis (univariate and multivariate).RESULTS: β value cutoff of 0.53 to distinguish high methylation (N = 44) from low methylation tumors (N = 62). Patients with lower levels of methylation had longer median overall survival (49.3 vs. 28.4) months (low vs. high, adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 4.933, 95% CI 2.054-11.852, p < 0.001). On univariate logistic regression analysis, four risk factors (margin, side, long diameter, and intratumoral vascularity) were associated with RUNX3 methylation level (all p < 0.05). Multivariate logistic regression analysis found that three risk factors (side: left vs. right, odds ratio [OR] 2.696; p = 0.024; 95% CI 1.138-6.386; margin: ill-defined vs. well-defined, OR 2.685; p = 0.038; 95% CI 1.057-6.820; and intratumoral vascularity: yes vs. no, OR 3.286; p = 0.008; 95% CI 1.367-7.898) were significant independent predictors of high methylation tumors. This model had an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.725 (95% CI 0.623-0.827).CONCLUSIONS: Higher levels of RUNX3 methylation are associated with shorter survival in ccRCC patients. And presence of intratumoral vascularity, ill-defined margin, and left side tumor were significant independent predictors of high methylation level of RUNX3 gene.KEY POINTS: • RUNX3 methylation level is negatively associated with overall survival in ccRCC patients. • Presence of intratumoral vascularity, ill-defined margin, and left side tumor were significant independent predictors of high methylation level of RUNX3 gene.
OBJECTIVE: Gastric cancer is more open related to genetic predisposition. In our RNA sequencing study on gastric cancer patients, Runt-related transcription factor-3 (RUNX3) expression was significantly down-regulated in gastric cancer. We showed that decreased levels of RUNX3 are significantly associated with c-MET (r = - 0.4216, P = 0.0130). In addition, c-MET expression is a candidate for targeted therapy in gastric cancer. Therefore, in the present study, the anti-cancer effects of the c-MET inhibitor on gastric cancer cells from positive or negative for c-MET amplification were evaluated.RESULTS: INC280 treatment inhibits growth of a c-MET-amplified MKN45 (RUNX3-positive) and SNU620 (RUNX3-negative) diffuse type cells. Then, INC280 showed the highest inhibition and apoptotic rates with the lowest IC50s in MKN45 cells but not in c-MET-reduced MKN28 (intestinal type) cells. We also showed that INC280 inhibits the WNT signaling pathway and SNAIL expression in MKN45 cells. The data indicate that INC280 could be used as therapeutic agents for the prevention or treatment of diffuse gastric cancer positive for c-MET amplification.
Cancer cells associated with radioresistance are likely to give rise to local recurrence and distant metastatic relapse. However, it remains unclear whether specific miRNAs have direct roles in radioresistance and/or prognosis. In this study, we find that miR-339-5p promotes radiosensitivity, and is downregulated in radioresistant subpopulations of esophageal cancer cells. Notably, miR-339-5p was selectively secreted into blood via exosomes, and that higher serum miR-339-5p levels were positively associated with radiotherapy sensitivity and good survival. Moreover, miR-339-5p expression was downregulated in the T3/T4 stage compared with T1/T2 stage in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients (P = 0.04), and low miR-339-5p expression in tissue was significantly associated with poor overall survival (P = 0.036) and disease-free survival (P = 0.037). Overexpression of miR-339-5p enhanced radiosensitivity in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, miR-339-5p enhances radiosensitivity by targeting Cdc25A, and is transcriptionally regulated by Runx3. Correlations were observed between miR-339-5p levels and Cdc25A/Runx3 levels in tissue samples. Intriguingly, combined analysis of miR-339-5p expression with Runx3 increased the separation of the survival curves obtained for either gene alone in the TCGA datasets (P = 0.009). Overall, exosome-derived miR-339-5p mediates radiosensitivity through downregulation of Cdc25A, and predicts pathological response to preoperative radiotherapy in locally advanced ESCC, suggesting it could be a promising non-invasive biomarker for facilitating personalized treatments.
[This corrects the article DOI: 10.3892/ol.2018.8419.].
Author information:(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 201900, P.R. China.
CONTEXT: High-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (HR-NMIBC) represents over 30% of all incident urothelial bladder cancers (BCs); patients are at risk of progression, and 20-30% will die from BC within 5 yr. Current guidelines recommend induction and maintenance of intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) or upfront radical cystectomy for highest-risk disease, treatments with markedly different morbidity, mortality, and patient burden. There are no validated biomarkers to facilitate such treatment decisions. Alterations in DNA methylation are commonplace in BC; hence, measurable changes in DNA methylation represent an opportunity for the discovery of such biomarkers.OBJECTIVE: To systematically assess the evidence regarding DNA methylation markers as prognosticators for HR-NMIBC.EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Standard systematic review methods were employed with searches undertaken in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PubMed up to January 2019. Studies that included patients with HR-NMIBC and investigated the utility of DNA methylation biomarkers as prognostic tools were included.EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Of 63 prognostic biomarker studies identified, 21 met the protocol-driven inclusion criteria and were directly relevant to HR-NMIBC patient outcomes: tumour recurrence (TR), tumour progression (TP), disease-specific survival (DSS), and overall survival (OS). These studies described 140 methylation markers; of these, the most promising were cadherin-13 (CDH13; hazard ratios [HRs]: 5.1 for TR, 6.6 for TP, 3.8-8.0 for OS), protocadherins (PCDHs; HRs: 4.7 for TR, 2.5 for TP, 3.0-4.8 for OS), Runt domain transcription factor 3 (RUNX3; HR: 5.1 for TP), Homeobox 9 (HOXA9; HR: 1.9 for TR), Islet-1 (ISL1; HRs: 1.7 for TR, 3.3 for TP), and PAX6 (HR: 2.2 for TR).CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review identifies a number of potentially useful prognostic methylation markers for HR-NMIBC. These loci (CDH13, PCDHs, RUNX3, HOXA9, ISL1, and PAX6) should be validated in prospective studies in order to translate benefit to patients.PATIENT SUMMARY: Early bladder cancer represents a more complex spectrum of disease than can be assessed by conventional methods Emerging studies on molecular markers will improve our understanding of this disease, and may enable more precise and personalised treatment.
This study aimed to explore the role of lncRNA GAS5 in the regulation of the killing effect of NK cells on liver cancer. Compared with a control group, lncRNA GAS5, RUNX3, and NCR1 were down-regulated in NK cells of patients with liver cancer, whereas miR-544 expression was up-regulated in NK cells of patients with liver cancer. Activated NK cells had higher IFN-γ level. Knockdown of GAS5 in activated NK cells decreased IFN-γ secretion, NK cell cytotoxicity, the percentage of CD107a+ NK cells, and the apoptosis rate of HepG2 and Huh7 cells. We also proved the interaction of GAS5 and miR-544, and the negative regulation role of GAS5 on miR-544. GAS5 overexpression in activated NK cells increased RUNX3 expression, IFN-γ secretion, the NK cell cytotoxicity, the percentage of CD107a+ NK cells, and the apoptosis rate of HepG2 cells, while miR-544 mimic abolished the promotion effect of GAS5 overexpression. Finally, in vivo experiments indicated an inhibition effect of GAS5 in tumor growth. LncRNA GAS5 overexpression enhances the killing effect of NK cell on liver cancer through regulating miR-544/RUNX3.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) 3 is a tumor suppressor whose expression is reduced in non-neoplastic rectal mucosa of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) with coexisting colitis-associated cancer (CAC). We aimed to evaluate RUNX3 utility as a predictive marker for CAC using immunohistochemistry (IHC) for non-neoplastic UC mucosa.METHODS: We retrospectively compared the RUNX3 expression detected by IHC between non-neoplastic rectal biopsy specimens from 20 cases with invasive cancer (CAC group) and 20 cases selected from 138 patients without CAC (non-CAC group) that were treated during the same period (2006-2017) and were matched for sex, duration, extension, and age. We validated the results using tissue microarrays (TMA) of 44 operated cases with CAC. The RUNX3 expression level was determined by calculating the percentage of RUNX3-positive-cells.RESULTS: The RUNX3 expression was lower in the CAC than that in the non-CAC group (35.6 vs. 70.7%, p = 0.03). For a cutoff value of 58%, the sensitivity and specificity for predicting CAC were 75.0 and 70.0% respectively. The immunostaining results for the TMA showed the same trend; 74% of cases with CAC were negative for the RUNX3 expression.CONCLUSION: RUNX3 immunostaining of non-neoplastic mucosa is useful for identifying UC patients at a high risk of developing CAC.
Ikaros family zinc finger protein 1 and 3 (IKZF1 and IKZF3) are transcription factors that promote multiple myeloma (MM) proliferation. The immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD) lenalidomide promotes myeloma cell death via Cereblon (CRBN)-dependent ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Although IMiDs have been used as first-line drugs for MM, the overall survival of refractory MM patients remains poor and demands the identification of novel agents to potentiate the therapeutic effect of IMiDs. Using an unbiased screen based on mass spectrometry, we identified the Runt-related transcription factor 1 and 3 (RUNX1 and RUNX3) as interactors of IKZF1 and IKZF3. Interaction with RUNX1 and RUNX3 inhibits CRBN-dependent binding, ubiquitylation, and degradation of IKZF1 and IKZF3 upon lenalidomide treatment. Inhibition of RUNXs, via genetic ablation or a small molecule (AI-10-104), results in sensitization of myeloma cell lines and primary tumors to lenalidomide. Thus, RUNX inhibition represents a valuable therapeutic opportunity to potentiate IMiDs therapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Despite advances in early diagnosis and treatment, cancer remains the major reason for mortality worldwide. The Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) family has been reported to participate in diverse human diseases. However, little is known about their expression and prognostic values in human leukemia. Herein, we conducted a detailed cancer versus normal analysis. The mRNA expression levels of the RUNX family in various kinds of cancers, including leukemia, were analyzed via the ONCOMINE and GEPIA (Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis) databases. We observed that the mRNA expression levels of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 were all increased in most cancers compared with normal tissues, especially in leukemia. Moreover, the expression levels of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3 are also highly expressed in almost all cancer cell lines, particularly in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines, analyzed by Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE) and European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI) databases. Further, the LinkedOmics and GEPIA databases were used to evaluate the prognostic values. In survival analyses based on LinkedOmics, higher expression of RUNX1 and RUNX2 indicated a better overall survival (OS), but with no significance, whereas increased RUNX3 revealed a poor OS in leukemia. In addition, the GEPIA dataset was also used to perform survival analyses, and results manifested that the expression of RUNX1 and RUNX2 had no remarkable correction with OS in leukemia, but it showed highly expressed RUNX3 was significantly related with poor OS in leukemia. In conclusion, the RUNX family showed significant expression differences between cancer and normal tissues, especially leukemia, and RUNX3 could be a promising prognostic biomarker for leukemia.
RUNX3 is frequently inactivated by DNA hypermethylation in numerous cancers. Here, we show that RUNX3 has an important role in modulating apoptosis in immediate response to tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-including ligand (TRAIL). Importantly, no combined effect of TRAIL and RUNX3 was observed in non-cancerous cells. We investigated the expression of the death receptors (DRs) DR4 and DR5, which are related to TRAIL resistance. Overexpression of RUNX3 increased DR5 expression via induction of the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-effector CHOP. Reduction of DR5 markedly decreased apoptosis enhanced by the combined therapy of TRAIL and RUNX3. Interestingly, RUNX3 induced reactive oxygen species production by inhibiting SOD3 transcription via binding to the Superoxide dismutase 3 (SOD3) promoter. Additionally, the combined effect of TRAIL and RUNX3 decreased tumor growth in xenograft models. Our results demonstrate a direct role for RUNX3 in TRAIL-induced apoptosis via activation of DR5 and provide further support for RUNX3 as an anti-tumor.
Susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is polygenic with more than 100 genes identified to date. These include HLA-B27 and the aminopeptidases (ERAP1, ERAP2, and LNPEPS), which are involved in antigen processing and presentation to T-cells, and several genes (IL23R, IL6R, STAT3, JAK2, IL1R1/2, IL12B, and IL7R) involved in IL23 driven pathways of inflammation. AS is also strongly associated with polymorphisms in two transcription factors, RUNX3 and T-bet (encoded by TBX21), which are important in T-cell development and function. The influence of these genes on the pathogenesis of AS and their potential for identifying drug targets is discussed here.
Abnormal methionine dependence in cancer cells has led to methionine restriction as a potential therapeutic strategy. We hypothesized that genetic variants involved in methionine-metabolic genes are associated with survival in nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Therefore, we investigated associations of 16,378 common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 97 methionine-metabolic pathway genes with overall survival (OS) in NSCLC patients using genotyping data from two published genome-wide association study (GWAS) datasets. In the single-locus analysis, 1,005 SNPs were significantly associated with NSCLC OS (p < 0.05 and false-positive report probability < 0.2) in the discovery dataset. Three SNPs (RUNX3 rs7553295 G > T, AMD1 rs1279590 G > A and MSRA rs73534533 C > A) were replicated in the validation dataset, and their meta-analysis showed an adjusted hazards ratio [HR] of 0.82 [95% confidence interval (CI) =0.75-0.89] and pmeta  = 2.86 × 10-6 , 0.81 (0.73-0.91) and pmeta  = 4.63 × 10-4 , and 0.77 (0.68-0.89) and pmeta  = 2.07 × 10-4 , respectively). A genetic score of protective genotypes of these three SNPs revealed an increased OS in a dose-response manner (ptrend  < 0.0001). Further expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis showed significant associations between these genotypes and mRNA expression levels. Moreover, differential expression analysis further supported a tumor-suppressive effect of MSRA, with lower mRNA levels in both lung squamous carcinoma and adenocarcinoma (p < 0.0001 and < 0.0001, respectively) than in adjacent normal tissues. Additionally, low mutation rates of these three genes indicated the critical roles of these functional SNPs in cancer progression. Taken together, these genetic variants of methionine-metabolic pathway genes may be promising predictors of survival in NSCLC patients.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is the strongest recognized risk factor for gastric adenocarcinoma. Since previous observations have shown that polymorphisms in innate immune system genes, as well as vitamin D (VitD) levels, could modify the risk of infection with Helicobacterpylori (H. pylori), we analyzed the relation between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in TLRs (TLR1, TLR2, TLR4) CD14, RUNX3 and VitD levels with H. pylori infection. A case-control study on four hundred sixty Lebanese individuals was conducted. Eleven SNPs in total were genotyped and gene expression analysis using real-time PCR was performed in white blood cells of a subsample of eight individuals. A total of 49% of the participants were affected. Although no direct association was found between the SNPs and H. pylori infection, rs4986790G>A and rs4986791T>C in TLR4 were negatively associated with VitD levels (β = -0.371, p = 5 × 10-3 and β = -0.4, p = 2 × 10-3, respectively), which was negatively associated with H. pylori infection (OR = 0.01, p < 1 × 10-3). TLR4 expression was 3× lower in individuals with H. pylori compared with non-infected (p = 0.01). TLR4 polymorphisms, expression, and VitD could be implicated in H. pylori infection and further development of gastric adenocarcinoma.
Memory CD4+ T cells mediate long-term immunity, and their generation is a key objective of vaccination strategies. However, the transcriptional circuitry controlling the emergence of memory cells from early CD4+ antigen-responders remains poorly understood. Here, using single-cell RNA-seq to study the transcriptome of virus-specific CD4+ T cells, we identified a gene signature that distinguishes potential memory precursors from effector cells. We found that both that signature and the emergence of memory CD4+ T cells required the transcription factor Thpok. We further demonstrated that Thpok cell-intrinsically protected memory cells from a dysfunctional, effector-like transcriptional program, similar to but distinct from the exhaustion pattern of cells responding to chronic infection. Mechanistically, Thpok- bound genes encoding the transcription factors Blimp1 and Runx3 and acted by antagonizing their expression. Thus, a Thpok-dependent circuitry promotes both memory CD4+ T cells' differentiation and functional fitness, two previously unconnected critical attributes of adaptive immunity.
AIM: Base excision repair (BER) gene polymorphisms are known to play an independent role in predisposition to developing different cancers as well as to be associated with clinicopathological traits of the disease modifying its clinical outcomes. One of the underlying mechanisms is presumed to include interplay between BER gene polymorphisms and key mutational, epigenetic and chromosomal events in tumor tissues. The present study was aimed at elucidating potential gene-gene interaction and assessing their mutual effects in bladder cancer (BC).MATERIALS AND METHODS: The earlier obtained data on genotyping patients with verified diagnosis of BC for OGG1 rs1052133 (Ser326Cys) and XRCC1 rs25487 (Arg399Gln) polymorphisms were used for this study. The tumor tissue samples from the same patients were analyzed for mutations, epigenetic variations and losses of heterozygosity in some key genes involved in divergent pathogenic pathways of BC.RESULTS: It was shown that the OGG1 (326 codon) heterozygous genotype as well as the minor 326Cys allele can intensify a mutational response of the RAS locus in urothelial carcinomas in the total cohort of patients simultaneously decreasing the mutation rates in the PIK3CA locus in smokers. The XRCC1 (399 codon) heterozygous genotype as well as the minor 399Gln allele reduced the frequency of LOH in the PTEN and TNKS genes, but did not affect the mutational variability in any locus tested. Both polymorphisms influenced the methylation status, carriers of OGG1 326Ser/Cys or Ser/Cys+Cys/Cys genotypes demonstrating increased frequency of methylated RUNX3 and ISL1 genes whereas the similar effect of XRCC1 polymorphism concerning methylation of p16 and TIMP3 genes. When dividing the total cohort into groups based on the extent of tumor spread, the observed associations were characteristic of non-muscle invasive BC.CONCLUSION: The BER gene polymorphisms contributed to modification of key molecular events in urothelial carcinomas. Their mutual effects mainly manifested in non-muscle invasive BC. The underlying mechanisms as well as possible clinical outcomes need to be further explored to propose novel prognostic biomarkers for BC.
To explore the effect of miR-106a in breast cancer cell behavior and sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents. Tumor tissue and adjacent normal tissue were derived from 40 breast cancer patients, and miR-106a expression was measured by reverse transcription-qPCR. Breast cancer cells, MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7, were treated with miRNA-106a mimic (MM) or miRNA-106a inhibitor (MI) and negative controls. Cell proliferation was measured by MTT assay. Clonogenicity was measured by colony-forming assay. Cell migration and invasion ability were measured by scratch test and transwell assay, respectively. Apoptosis was determined by flow cytometry, and chemosensitivity to cisplatin was measured by MTT assay. Finally, protein expression of p53, Bax, Bcl-2, RUNX3, and ABCG2 was quantified by western blot. miR-106a expression was significantly upregulated in human breast cancer tissue relative to adjacent normal tissue. Upregulation of miR-106a enhanced breast cancer cell proliferation, colony-forming capacity, migration, and invasion of cultured breast cancer cells. Additionally, miR-106a overexpression significantly decreased breast cancer cell apoptosis and sensitivity to cisplatin. Finally, we showed miR-106a overexpression upregulated the levels of Bcl-2 and ABCG2, and downregulated the expression of P53, Bax, and RUNX3. miR-106a promotes breast cancer cell proliferation and invasion through upregulation of Bcl-2, ABCG2, and P53, and downregulation of Bax and RUNX3.
Aberrant promoter methylation plays a vital role in colorectal carcinogenesis. However, its role in treatment responses is unclear, especially for metastatic disease. Here, we investigated the association between promoter methylation and treatment outcomes of irinotecan-based chemotherapy in 102 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Promoter methylation was examined by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction for three loci (CHFR, WRN, and SULF2) associated with chemotherapy response and five CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP)-specific markers (CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1). Association between CHFR methylation and in vitro sensitivity to irinotecan was also evaluated. Promoter methylation of CHFR, WRN, and SULF2 was identified in 16 (15.7%), 24 (23.5%), and 33 (32.4%) patients, respectively. CIMP status was positive in 22 (21.6%) patients. CHFR methylation was associated with a significantly longer time to progression (TTP) (median: 8.77 vs. 4.43 months, P = .019), with trends favoring higher overall survival (OS) (median: 22.83 vs. 20.17 months, P = .300) and response rates (31.3% vs. 17.4%, P = .300). For patients with unmethylated CHFR, TTP (median: 5.60 vs. 3.53, P = .020) and OS (median: 20.57 vs. 9.23, P = .006) were significantly different according to CIMP status. Colorectal cancer cell lines with CHFR methylation demonstrated increased sensitivity to irinotecan. Both CHFR overexpression and combination with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine reversed irinotecan sensitivity in CHFR-methylated cell lines, whereas CHFR knockdown in unmethylated cells restored sensitivity to irinotecan. These data suggest that CHFR methylation may be associated with favorable treatment outcomes of irinotecan-based chemotherapy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
BACKGROUND: We assessed the role of E-cadherin (CDH1), runt-related transcription factor 3, p21waf and p27 promoter methylation (PM) and protein expression in Helicobacter pylori (HP)-associated gastric carcinomas (GCs) and adjacent non-neoplastic tissues (ANNTs).PATIENTS AND METHODS: 192 cases were assessed for PM and protein expression of CDH1, RUNX3, p21waf and p27 by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and immunohistochemistry. The CagA gene was also assessed.RESULTS: In GCs, 66 (34.4%) and 84 (43.8%) cases showed CDH1-PM and reduced expression. It is significantly affected in GCs rather than in non-neoplastic groups (p < 0.001). In ANNTs, 108 (56.3%) cases showed CDH1-PM and all cases revealed preserved protein expression. RUNX3-PM was detected in 78 GCs (40.6%) and 69 ANNTs (35.9%), whereas reduced protein expression was detected in 99 (51.65%) GC compared to ANNTs 90 (46.9%). p21WAF and p27 showed PM in (48.4% and 45.3%) GCs and ANNTs; respectively. p21waf protein was reduced in 90 (46.9%) cases and 91 ANNTs (47.4%). p27 was reduced in 86 (44.8%) cases and 87 ANNTs (45.3%). CDH1 aberrations correlated with HP in tumors and ANNTs and with diffuse/intestinal tumors (p = 0.014, p = 0.014 and p = 0.02). RUNX3 aberrations associated with HP (p = 0.04), high grade (p = 0.04), and advanced stage (p = 032). Tumor grade associated with RUNX3-PM, CDH, p21 and p27 protein (p < 0.05 for all). Tumor stage associated significantly with PM and reduced protein expression of all markers. Positive lymph nodes associated significantly with p27PM (p < 0.001).CONCLUSIONS: HP plays an important role in the development and progression of GC through silencing of CDH1, RUNX3, p21WAF and p27 expression.
BACKGROUND: Circular RNAs (circRNAs) comprise a novel class of noncoding RNAs that play important roles in a variety of diseases. However, the mechanism by which circRNAs regulate the osteogenic differentiation of maxillary sinus membrane stem cells (MSMSCs) remains largely unclear.METHODS: Microarray analysis was used to explore the expression profiles of circRNAs during the osteogenic differentiation of normal and BMP2 induced-MSMSCs. CircRNA_33287 was identified by agarose electrophoresis, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), and western blotting. The function of circRNA_33287 was assessed by loss- and gain-of-function techniques and Alizarin red staining. Potential miRNA binding sites for circRNA_33287, and the target genes of miR-214-3p, were predicted by using online bioinformatics analysis tools. The relationships among the regulatory roles played by circRNA_33287, miR-214-3p, and Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3), during the osteogenic differentiation of MSMSCs were verified by use of the dual luciferase reporter assay, qRT-PCR, and western blotting techniques, respectively. In addition, the molecular sponge potential of circRNA_33287 for miRNA was assessed via in vivo ectopic bone formation and a histological analysis performed after hematoxylin and eosin staining.RESULTS: Expression of circRNA_33287 was confirmed to be up-regulated during the osteogenic differentiation of MSMSCS. Overexpression and silencing of circRNA_33287 increased and decreased the expression levels of key markers of osteogenesis, respectively, including Runx2, OSX, and ALP. Furthermore, circRNA_33287 acted as a molecular sponge for miR-214-3p, which regulated Runx3 expression by targeting its 3'UTR. Moreover, circRNA_33287 protected Runx3 from miR-214-3p-mediated suppression. In addition, circRNA_33287 was shown to increase ectopic bone formation in vivo and displayed the strongest ability to stimulate bone formation when co-transfected with a miR-214-3p inhibitor.CONCLUSION: The novel pathway circRNA_33287/miR-214-3p/Runx3 was found to play a role in regulating the osteoblastic differentiation of MSMSCs in the posterior maxilla.
The function of runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) in oral cancer remains controversial. The present study aimed to determine the status of RUNX3 protein expression and its association with clinicopathological characteristics in tongue squamous cell carcinomas (SCC). The present study used three pairs of tongue SCC and non‑cancerous tissues to assess RUNX3 protein expression by western blot analysis, and two tongue SCC cell lines to determine RUNX3 protein localization by immunofluorescence and immunocytochemistry. Tissue microarray immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the clinical relevance of RUNX3 in 79 patients with tongue SCC. The results demonstrated that RUNX3 protein expression was reduced in tongue SCC tissues compared with in paired non‑cancerous tissues. Similarly, the expression of RUNX3 was low in SCC25 and Cal27 cells, and was predominantly localized to the cytoplasm. In the 79 patients with tongue SCC, RUNX3 protein expression was presented in different manners in carcinoma nests and tumor stroma. RUNX3 in carcinoma nests (nRUNX3) exhibited nuclear positive staining in 24/79 samples, cytoplasmic mislocalization in 41/79 samples and was undetectable in 14/79 samples. RUNX3 in stroma (sRUNX3) exhibited nuclear positive staining in 40/79 samples and nuclear negative staining in 39/79 samples. Negative nRUNX3 expression was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis (P=0.014), clinical stage (P=0.027), and overall and disease‑free survival (P=0.008 and P=0.007, respectively). In addition, negative sRUNX3 expression was associated with lymph node metastasis (P=0.003) and clinical stage (P=0.003); however, not with overall survival. The findings of the present study preliminarily suggested that cytoplasmic mislocalization of RUNX3 protein may be a common event in tongue SCC, and that sRUNX3 protein expression may be a potential prognostic biomarker.
RUNX genes belong to a three-membered family of transcription factors, which are well established as master regulators of development. Of them, aberrations in RUNX3 expression are frequently observed in human malignancies primarily due to epigenetic silencing, which is often overlooked. At the G1 phase of the cell cycle, RUNX3 regulates the restriction (R)-point, a mechanism that decides cell cycle entry. Deregulation at the R-point or loss of RUNX3 results in premature entry into S phase, leading to a proliferative advantage. Inactivation of Runx1 and Runx2 induce immortalization of mouse embryo fibroblast. As a consequence, RUNX loss induces pre-cancerous lesions independent of oncogene activation. p53 is the most extensively studied tumour suppressor. p53 plays an important role to prevent tumour progression but not tumour initiation. Therefore, upon oncogene activation, early inactivation of RUNX genes and subsequent mutation of p53 appear to result in tumour initiation and progression. Recently, transcription-independent DNA repairing roles of RUNX3 and p53 are emerging. Being evolutionarily old genes, it appears that the primordial function of p53 is to protect genome integrity, a function that likely extends to the RUNX gene as well. In this review, we examine the mechanism and sequence of actions of these tumour suppressors in detail.
Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a novel class of non-coding RNAs, have emerged as indispensable modulators in human malignancies. Aberrant cellular senescence is a phenotype observed in various cancers. The association of circRNAs with cellular senescence in tumors is yet to determined. Here, we investigated the role of circLARP4 in cellular senescence and cell proliferation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Downregulated circLARP4 level was observed in HCC tissues and cell lines. Low expression level of circLARP4 independently predicted poor survival outcome. Gain-of-function and loss-of-function assays demonstrated that circLARP4 suppressed HCC cell proliferation, mediated cell cycle arrest and induced senescence in vitro. Levels of p53 and p21, 2 key regulatory molecules in cellular senescence, were increased in circLARP4-overexpressed HCC cells and decreased in circLARP4-silenced HCC cells. In vivo experiments further confirmed the tumor-suppressing activity of circLARP4. Further mechanistic studies showed that circLARP4 dampened HCC progression by sponging miR-761, thereby promoting the expression level of RUNX3 and activating the downstream p53/p21 signaling. Our study revealed the role of circLARP4/miR-761/RUNX3/p53/p21 signaling in HCC progression, providing a potential survival predictor and therapeutic candidate for HCC.
Colorectal carcinoma (CRC) is a major cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, and investigations on novel targets are imperative. MiR-98 has been reported to act as a tumor suppressor in several cancers. To evaluate miR-98 as a novel anticancer molecule for CRC, examinations to validate whether miR-98 conferred an inhibiting effect on proliferation, migration, and invasion were performed. The microarray-based gene expression profiling involving CRC was used to identify the differentially expressed genes. The potential relationship between miR-98 and CLDN1 was analyzed by cell experimentation. Then, the CRC cells were transfected with miR-98 mimic or miR-98 inhibitor to investigate the potential effect of miR-98 overexpression and depletion on CRC cell proliferation, migration, invasion, and apoptosis. The expressions of CLDN1, Bcl-2 associated protein x (Bax), runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2), C-myc, and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) were determined. The downregulated miR-98 along with an upregulated CLDN1 was observed in CRC, in which miR-98 could target to regulate CLDN1. The overexpression of miR-98 or silencing of CLDN1 was shown to increase the expression of Bax and RUNX3 along with promoted cell apoptosis and arrested cells in G1 phase, while decreasing the expression of CLDN1, Bcl-2, C-myc, and PCNA with suppressed proliferation, migration, and invasion. Collectively, the current study supports the notion that miR-98 plays an inhibitory role in human CRC cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and act as a contributor for cell apoptosis by downregulating CLDN1. The current study highlights a potential future strategy to help prevent the development of CRC.
T cells are key elements of cancer immunotherapy1 but certain fundamental properties, such as the development and migration of T cells within tumours, remain unknown. The enormous T cell receptor (TCR) repertoire, which is required for the recognition of foreign and self-antigens2, could serve as lineage tags to track these T cells in tumours3. Here we obtained transcriptomes of 11,138 single T cells from 12 patients with colorectal cancer, and developed single T cell analysis by RNA sequencing and TCR tracking (STARTRAC) indices to quantitatively analyse the dynamic relationships among 20 identified T cell subsets with distinct functions and clonalities. Although both CD8+ effector and 'exhausted' T cells exhibited high clonal expansion, they were independently connected with tumour-resident CD8+ effector memory cells, implicating a TCR-based fate decision. Of the CD4+ T cells, most tumour-infiltrating T regulatory (Treg) cells showed clonal exclusivity, whereas certain Treg cell clones were developmentally linked to several T helper (TH) cell clones. Notably, we identified two IFNG+ TH1-like cell clusters in tumours that were associated with distinct IFNγ-regulating transcription factors -the GZMK+ effector memory T cells, which were associated with EOMES and RUNX3, and CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cell clusters, which were associated with BHLHE40. Only CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cells were preferentially enriched in patients with microsatellite-instable tumours, and this might explain their favourable responses to immune-checkpoint blockade. Furthermore, IGFLR1 was highly expressed in both CXCL13+BHLHE40+ TH1-like cells and CD8+ exhausted T cells and possessed co-stimulatory functions. Our integrated STARTRAC analyses provide a powerful approach to dissect the T cell properties in colorectal cancer comprehensively, and could provide insights into the dynamic relationships of T cells in other cancers.
BACKGROUND: Chronic inflammation caused by ulcerative colitis (UC) causes a pro-neoplastic drive in the inflamed colon, leading to a markedly greater risk of invasive malignancy compared to the general population. Despite surveillance protocols, 50% of cases proceed to cancer before neoplasia is detected. The Enhanced Neoplasia Detection and Cancer Prevention in Chronic Colitis (ENDCaP-C) trial is an observational multi-centre test accuracy study to ascertain the role of molecular markers in improving the detection of dysplasia. We aimed to validate previously identified biomarkers of neoplasia in a retrospective cohort and create predictive models for later validation in a prospective cohort.METHODS: A retrospective analysis using bisulphite pyrosequencing of an 11 marker panel (SFRP1, SFRP2, SRP4, SRP5, WIF1, TUBB6, SOX7, APC1A, APC2, MINT1, RUNX3) in samples from 35 patients with cancer, 78 with dysplasia and 343 without neoplasia undergoing surveillance for UC associated neoplasia across 6 medical centres. Predictive models for UC associated cancer/dysplasia were created in the setting of neoplastic and non-neoplastic mucosa.FINDINGS: For neoplastic mucosa a five marker panel (SFRP2, SFRP4, WIF1, APC1A, APC2) was accurate in detecting pre-cancerous and invasive neoplasia (AUC = 0.83; 95% CI: 0.79, 0.88), and dysplasia (AUC = 0.88; (0.84, 0.91). For non-neoplastic mucosa a four marker panel (APC1A, SFRP4, SFRP5, SOX7) had modest accuracy (AUC = 0.68; 95% CI: 0.62,0.73) in predicting associated bowel neoplasia through the methylation signature of distant non-neoplastic colonic mucosa.INTERPRETATION: This multiplex methylation marker panel is accurate in the detection of ulcerative colitis associated dysplasia and neoplasia and is currently being validated in a prospective clinical trial.FUNDING: The ENDCAP-C study was funded by the National Institute for Health Research Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation (EME) Programme (11/100/29).
Up to 60% of untreated atypical hyperplastic endometrium will develop into endometrial carcinoma (EC), and for those who underwent a hysterectomy a coexisting EC is found in up to 50%. Gene promoter methylation might be related to the EC development. The aim of this study is to determine changes in gene promoter profiles in normal endometrium, atypical hyperplasia (AH) and EC in relation to K-Ras mutations. A retrospective study was conducted in patients diagnosed with endometrial hyperplasia with and without subsequent EC. Promoter methylation of APC, hMLh1, O6-MGMT, P14, P16, RASSF1, RUNX3 was analysed on pre-operative biopsies, and correlated to the final histological diagnosis, and related to the presence of K-Ras mutations. In the study cohort (n=98), differences in promoter methylation were observed for hMLH1, O6-MGMT, and P16. Promoter methylation of hMLH1 and O6-MGMT gradually increased from histologically normal endometrium to AH to EC; 27.3, 36.4% and 38.0% for hMLH1 and 8.3%, 18.2% and 31.4% for O6-MGMT, respectively. P16 promoter methylation was significantly different in AH (7.7%) compared to EC (38%). K-Ras mutations were observed in 12.1% of AH, and in 19.6% of EC cases. No association of K-Ras mutation with promoter methylation of any of the tested genes was found. In conclusion, hMLH1 and O6-MGMT promoter methylation are frequently present in AH, and thus considered to be early events in the carcinogenesis of EC, whereas P16 promoter methylation was mainly present in EC, and not in precursor lesions supporting a late event in the carcinogenesis.
Aberrant activation of β-catenin signaling is a critical driver for tumorigenesis, but the mechanism underlying this activation is not completely understood. In this study, we demonstrate a critical role of β-catenin signaling in stabilization of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) and control of EZH2-mediated gene repression in oncogenesis. β-Catenin/TCF4 activated the transcription of the deubiquitinase USP1, which then interacted with and deubiquitinated EZH2 directly. USP1-mediated stabilization of EZH2 promoted its recruitment to the promoters of CDKN1B, RUNX3, and HOXA5, resulting in enhanced enrichment of histone H3K27me3 and repression of target gene expression. In human glioma specimens, expression levels of nuclear β-catenin, USP1, and EZH2 correlated with one another. Depletion of β-catenin/USP1/EZH2 repressed glioma cell proliferation in vitro and tumor formation in vivo. Our findings indicate that a β-catenin-USP1-EZH2 axis orchestrates the interplay between dysregulated β-catenin signaling and EZH2-mediated gene epigenetic silencing during glioma tumorigenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings identify the β-catenin-USP1-EZH2 signaling axis as a critical mechanism for glioma tumorigenesis that may serve as a new therapeutic target in glioblastoma.
Endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are ancient viral elements that have accumulated in the genome through retrotransposition events. Although they have lost their ability to transpose, many of the long terminal repeats (LTRs) that originally flanked full-length ERVs maintain the ability to regulate transcription. While these elements are typically repressed in somatic cells, they can function as transcriptional enhancers and promoters when this repression is lost. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), which transforms primary B cells into continuously proliferating cells, is a tumor virus associated with lymphomas. We report here that transformation of primary B cells by EBV leads to genome-wide activation of LTR enhancers and promoters. The activation of LTRs coincides with local DNA hypomethylation and binding by transcription factors such as RUNX3, EBF1, and EBNA2. The set of activated LTRs is unique to transformed B cells compared with other cell lines known to have activated LTRs. Furthermore, we found that LTR activation impacts the B cell transcriptome by up-regulating transcripts driven by cryptic LTR promoters. These transcripts include genes important to oncogenesis of Hodgkin lymphoma and other cancers, such as HUWE1/HECTH9 These data suggest that the activation of LTRs by EBV-induced transformation is important to the pathology of EBV-associated cancers. Altogether, our results indicate that EBV-induced transformation of B cells alters endogenous retroviral element activity, thereby impacting host gene regulatory networks and oncogenic potential.
We previously demonstrated that female Runx3 knockout (Runx3-/-) mice were anovulatory and their uteri were atrophic and that Runx3 mRNA was expressed in granulosa cells. To clarify how Runx3 regulates folliculogenesis and ovulation, we examine the effects of Runx3 knockout on the gene expression of growth factors associated with folliculogenesis and enzymes associated with steroidogenesis. In Runx3-/- mouse ovaries, the numbers of primary and antral follicles were lower than those in wild-type (wt) mice at 3 weeks of age, indicating that the loss of Runx3 affects folliculogenesis. The expression of genes encoding activin and inhibin subunits (Inha, Inhba and Inhbb) was also decreased in ovaries from the Runx3-/- mice compared with that in wt mice. Moreover, the expression of the genes Cyp11a1 and Cyp19a1 encoding steroidogenic enzymes was also decreased. In cultured granulosa cells from 3-week-old mouse ovaries, Cyp19a1 mRNA levels were lower in Runx3-/- mice than those in wt mice. Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) treatment increased Cyp19a1 mRNA levels in both wt and Runx3-/- granulosa cells in culture but the mRNA level in Runx3-/- granulosa cells was lower than that in wt ones, indicating that granulosa cells could not fully function in the absence of Runx3. At 3 weeks of age, gonadotropin α subunit, FSHβ subunit and luteinizing hormone (LH) β subunit mRNA levels were decreased in Runx3-/- mice. These findings suggest that Runx3 plays a key role in female reproduction by regulating folliculogenesis and steroidogenesis in granulosa cells.
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common type of cancer. MicroRNAs have been reported to participate in the progression of various cancers. In previous studies, miR-301a-3p expression was shown to be upregulated in CRC tissues. However, the underlying mechanism of miR-301a-3p in CRC has not yet been elucidated. Herein, the level of miR-301a-3p was found to be significantly upregulated in CRC clinical tissues and cell lines (HT29 and SW620). In addition, overexpression of miR-301a-3p obviously promoted cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and inhibited cell apoptosis in CRC cells. Meanwhile, upregulated miR-301a-3p expression also enhanced the expressions of Bax, caspase-3, caspase-9, matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, and MMP-9, while the expression of Bax-2 was decreased. Furthermore, deleted in liver cancer-1 (DLC-1) and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) were verified to be direct target genes of miR-301a-3p. Furthermore, overexpression of DLC-1 and RUNX3 revealed antitumor effects in CRC cell lines with the inhibition of cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and the induction of cell apoptosis. In addition, the expressions of Bax, caspase-3, caspase-3, MMP-2, and MMP-9 could be decreased after upregulating the expressions of DLC-1 and RUNX3, along with the upregulation of Bax-2. Moreover, overexpression of miR-301a-3p could promote the growth of xenograft tumors and liver metastasis in vivo, along with reducing the expressions of DLC-1 and RUNX3. Overall, miR-301a-3p might act as a tumor inducer in CRC cells through negatively regulating DLC-1 and RUNX3.
RATIONALE: Recent studies suggest that similar injury mechanisms are in place across different solid organ transplants, resulting in the identification of a common rejection module (CRM), consisting of 11 genes that are overexpressed during acute and, to a lesser extent, chronic allograft rejection.OBJECTIVES: We wanted to evaluate the usefulness of the CRM module in identifying acute rejection (AR) and different phenotypes of chronic lung transplant rejection (CLAD), i.e., bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS) and restrictive allograft syndrome (RAS), using transbronchial brushings, broncho-alveolar lavage (BAL) samples, and explant tissue.METHODS: Gene expression measurements for the 11 CRM genes (CD6, TAP1, CXCL10, CXCL9, INPP5D, ISG20, LCK, NKG7, PSMB9, RUNX3, and BASP1) were performed via qRT-PCR in 14 transbronchial brushings (AR, n = 4; no AR, n = 10), 32 BAL samples (stable, n = 13; AR, n = 8; BOS, n = 9; RAS, n = 10), and 44 tissue specimens (unused donor lungs, n = 15; BOS, n = 13; RAS, n = 16). A geometric mean score was calculated to quantitate overall burden of immune injury and a new computational model was built for the most significant genes in lung transplant injury.RESULTS: Acute rejection showed a significant difference in almost every gene analysed, validating previous observations from microarray analysis. RAS tissue demonstrated a higher geometric mean score (6.35) compared to donor tissue (4.09, p = 0.018). Analysis of individual CRM genes showed an increased expression of ISG20, CXCL10 and CXCL9 in RAS. In BAL samples, no differences were detected in gene expression or geometric mean scores between the various groups (stable, 5.15; AR, 5.81; BOS, 5.62; RAS, 7.31). A newly modelled 2-gene tissue CRM score did not demonstrate any difference between BOS and RAS (p>0.05). However, the model was able to discriminate RAS from BOS tissue (AUC = 0.75, 95% CI = 0.55-0.94, p = 0.025).CONCLUSION: Transcriptional tissue analysis for CRM genes in CLAD can identify acute rejection and distinguish RAS from BOS. The immune activation in RAS seems similar to acute rejection after kidney/liver/heart transplantation.
Erratum in    Int J Mol Med. 2019 May;43(5):2261.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: Although nearly half of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients have diabetes mellitus with episodes of hyperglycemia, its tumor microenvironment is hypoglycemic. Thus, it is crucial for PDAC cells to develop adaptive mechanisms dealing with oscillating glucose levels. So far, the biological impact of such glycemic variability on PDAC biology remains unknown.METHODS: Murine PDAC cells were cultured in low- and high-glucose medium to investigate the molecular, biochemical, and metabolic influence of glycemic variability on tumor behavior. A set of in vivo functional assays including orthotopic implantation and portal and tail vein injection were used. Results were further confirmed on tissues from PDAC patients.RESULTS: Glycemic variability has no significant effect on PDAC cell proliferation. Hypoglycemia is associated with local invasion and angiogenesis, whereas hyperglycemia promotes metastatic colonization. Increased metastatic colonization under hyperglycemia is due to increased expression of runt related transcription factor 3 (Runx3), which further activates expression of collagen, type VI, alpha 1 (Col6a1), forming a glycemic pro-metastatic pathway. Through epigenetic machinery, retinoic acid receptor beta (Rarb) expression fluctuates according to glycemic variability, acting as a critical sensor relaying the glycemic signal to Runx3/Col6a1. Moreover, the signal axis of Rarb/Runx3/Col6a1 is pharmaceutically accessible to a widely used antidiabetic substance, metformin, and Rar modulator. Finally, PDAC tissues from patients with diabetes show an increased expression of COL6A1.CONCLUSIONS: Glycemic variability promotes both local invasion and metastatic colonization of PDAC. A pro-metastatic signal axis Rarb/Runx3/Col6a1 whose activity is controlled by glycemic variability is identified. The therapeutic relevance of this pathway needs to be explored in PDAC patients, especially in those with diabetes.
Innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) are the most recently identified family of the innate immune system and are hypothesized to modulate immune functions prior to the generation of adaptive immune responses. Subsets of ILCs reside in the mucosa and regulate immune responses to external pathogens; however, their role and the mechanism by which they protect against intracellular bacterial infection is not completely understood. In this report, using S. typhimurium and L. monocytogenes, we found that the levels of group 1 ILCs and NCR+ ILC3s were increased upon infection and that these increases were associated with Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) expression. Runx3 fl/fl PLZF-cre mice were much more sensitive to infection with the intracellular bacterial pathogens S. typhimurium and L. monocytogenes partially due to abnormal Group 1 ILC and NCR+ILC3 function. We also found that Runx3 directly binds to the Il12Rβ2 promoter and intron 8 to accelerate the expression of Il12Rβ2 and modulates IFNγ secretion triggered by the IL12/ STAT4 axis. Therefore, we demonstrate that Runx3 influences group 1 ILC- and NCR+ILC3-mediated immune protection against intracellular bacterial infections of both the gut and liver.
Langerhans cells (LC) are the prototype langerin-expressing dendritic cells (DC) that reside specifically in the epidermis, but langerin-expressing conventional DCs also reside in the dermis and other tissues, yet the factors that regulate their development are unclear. Because retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARα) is highly expressed by LCs, we investigate the functions of RARα and retinoic acid (RA) in regulating the langerin-expressing DCs. Here we show that the development of LCs from embryonic and bone marrow-derived progenitors and langerin+ conventional DCs is profoundly regulated by the RARα-RA axis. During LC differentiation, RARα is required for the expression of a LC-promoting transcription factor Runx3, but suppresses that of LC-inhibiting C/EBPβ. RARα promotes the development of LCs and langerin+ conventional DCs only in hypo-RA conditions, a function effectively suppressed at systemic RA levels. Our findings identify positive and negative regulatory mechanisms to tightly regulate the development of the specialized DC populations.
Objective. Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a systemic connective tissue disease of unknown etiology. Aberrant gene expression and epigenetic modifications in circulating immune cells have been implicated in the pathogenesis of SSc. This study is to delineate the interaction network between gene transcription and DNA methylation in PBMC of SSc patients and to identify methylation-regulated genes which are involved in the pathogenesis of SSc. Methods. Genome-wide mRNA transcription and global DNA methylation analysis were performed on PBMC from 18 SSc patients and 19 matched normal controls (NC) using Illumina BeadChips. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially methylated positions (DMPs) were integrative analyzed to identify methylation-regulated genes and associated molecular pathways. Results. Transcriptome analysis distinguished 453 DEGs (269 up- and 184 downregulated) in SSc from NC. Global DNA methylation analysis identified 925 DMPs located on 618 genes. Integration of the two lists revealed only 20 DEGs which harbor inversely correlated DMPs, including 12 upregulated (ELANE, CTSG, LTBR, C3AR1, CSTA, SPI1, ODF3B, SAMD4A, PLAUR, NFE2, ZYX, and CTSZ) and eight downregulated genes (RUNX3, PRF1, PRKCH, PAG1, RASSF5, FYN, CXCR6, and F2R). These potential methylation-regulated DEGs (MeDEGs) are enriched in the pathways related to immune cell migration, proliferation, activation, and inflammation activities. Using a machine learning algorism, we identified six out of the 20 MeDEGs, including F2R, CXCR6, FYN, LTBR, CTSG, and ELANE, which distinguished SSc from NC with 100% accuracy. Four genes (F2R, FYN, PAG1, and PRKCH) differentially expressed in SSc with interstitial lung disease (ILD) compared to SSc without ILD. Conclusion. The identified MeDEGs may represent novel candidate factors which lead to the abnormal activation of immune regulatory pathways in the pathogenesis of SSc. They may also be used as diagnostic biomarkers for SSc and clinical complications.
Runx3, a member of the Runt-related transcription factor family, has attracted extensive attention due to its important role in the development of immune systems, especially in the differentiation of T cells. Accumulated evidence indicated that altered expression of Runx3 regulates a variety of target genes in different tissues/cells. Studies in animal models suggested that Runx3 may regulate the development of T cell lineage including those of innate lymphoid cells, Treg cells and dendritic cells, which may contribute to the development of hypersensitivity and asthma. Specifically, Runx3 modulates Th1/Th2 balance and hence, the production of interleukins, which induce inflammatory responses. Understanding the roles and mechanisms of Runx3 in the regulation of immune function provides a basis for the design of novel preventive and treatment models for bronchial asthma. This article reviews published data from cell lines, animal models, and patients, concerning the relationship between Runx3 expression alteration and asthma. Epigenetic regulation of Runx3 by DNA hypermethylation and microRNA, and the implication of these pathways in asthma are also discussed.
BACKGROUND: Prostate-specific antigen screening for prostate cancer (CaP) remains controversial. This study establishes the role of microRNA 301a (miR-301a) as a supplemental biomarker that can distinguish between patients with benign prostate hyperplasia and clinically significant CaP. We evaluate the ability of miR-301a to predict the adverse pathology of CaP.METHODS: In the first cohort, serum and prostate tumor samples were obtained from thirteen patients with Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), twelve patients with Gleason 6, and sixteen patients with Gleason 7 prostate adenocarcinoma. In the second cohort, 40 prostatectomy cases were selected (BPH:12, Gleason 6:12 and Gleason 7:16). MiRNA was extracted from serum and tumor samples. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was performed for detection of miR-301a. To understand the molecular role of miR-301a, we performed cell viability, Western blots, promoter analysis, overexpression, and silencing studies in BPH and DU-145 cell lines.RESULTS: MiR-301a demonstrated a significantly higher expression in both serum and tumor tissue in patients with CaP when compared to patients with BPH (P = 0.011 and 0.013 for serum and tissue expression, respectively). Expression of miR-301a in prostatectomy specimens correlated with increased Gleason score. We demonstrated that miR-301a inhibited the pro-apoptotic function of RUNX3, and activated ROCK1-mediated pro-survival signal in CaP. Silencing miR-301a initiated the pro-apoptotic function of RUNX3 by inhibiting ROCK1 expression in CaP cells.CONCLUSIONS: Expression of miR-301a could be a valuable adjunct tool for stratifying patients with elevated prostate-specific antigen, as well as those diagnosed with CaP. Including the miR-301a as an additional variable in MSKCC post-prostatectomy nomogram improved its ability in facilitating clinical decision-making.
An intronic silencer, S4, in the Cd4 gene has been shown to be responsible for the helper-lineage-specific expression of CD4; S4 requires Runx complex binding to exert its silencer function against the enhancer-mediated Cd4 activation by modulating the epigenetic state of the Cd4 gene. Here we identify a late-acting maturation enhancer. Bcl11b plays essential roles for activation of both the early-acting proximal enhancer and maturation enhancer of Cd4. Notably, Runx complexes suppress these enhancers by distinct mechanisms. Whereas repression of the proximal enhancer depends on the S4 silencer, the maturation enhancer is repressed by Runx in the absence of S4. Moreover, ThPOK, known to antagonize S4-mediated Cd4 repression, assists Runx complexes to restrain maturation enhancer activation. Distinct modes of S4 silencer action upon distinct enhancers thus unravel a pathway that restricts CD4 expression to helper-lineage cells by silencer-independent and Runx-dependent repression of maturation enhancer activity in cytotoxic-lineage cells.
CD8+ T lymphocytes are the major anti-tumor effector cells. Most cancer immunotherapeutic approaches seek to amplify cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) specific to malignant cells. A recently identified subpopulation of memory CD8+ T cells, named tissue-resident memory T (TRM) cells, persists in peripheral tissues and does not recirculate. This T-cell subset is considered an independent memory T-cell lineage with a specific profile of transcription factors, including Runx3+, Notch+, Hobit+, Blimp1+, BATF+, AHR+, EOMESneg and Tbetlow. It is defined by expression of CD103 (αE(CD103)β7) and CD49a (VLA-1 or α1β1) integrins and C-type lectin CD69, which are most likely involved in retention of TRM cells in non-lymphoid tissues, including solid tumors. CD103 binds to the epithelial cell marker E-cadherin, thereby favoring the location and retention of TRM in epithelial tumor regions in close contact with malignant cells. The CD103-E-cadherin interaction is required for polarized exocytosis of lytic granules, in particular, when ICAM-1 expression on cancer cells is missing, leading to target cell death. TRM cells also express high levels of granzyme B, IFNγ and TNFα, supporting their cytotoxic features. Moreover, the local route of immunization targeting tissue dendritic cells (DC), and the presence of environmental factors (i.e. TGF-β, IL-33 and IL-15), promote differentiation of this T-cell subtype. In both spontaneous tumor models and engrafted tumors, natural TRM cells or cancer-vaccine-induced TRM directly control tumor growth. In line with these results, TRM infiltration into various human cancers, including lung cancer, are correlated with better clinical outcome in both univariate and multivariate analyses independently of CD8+ T cells. TRM cells also predominantly express checkpoint receptors such as PD-1, CTLA-4 and Tim-3. Blockade of PD-1 with neutralizing antibodies on TRM cells isolated from human lung cancer promotes cytolytic activity toward autologous tumor cells. Thus, TRM cells appear to represent important components in tumor immune surveillance. Their induction by cancer vaccines or other immunotherapeutic approaches may be critical for the success of these treatments. Several arguments, such as their close contact with tumor cells, dominant expression of checkpoint receptors and their recognition of cancer cells, strongly suggest that they may be involved in the success of immune checkpoint inhibitors in various cancers.
OBJECTIVE: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is an unexplained inflammatory disease in bowel. Some studies reported that microRNA-19b (miR-19b) was closely related to cell inflammatory response. We aimed to explore the molecular mechanism of miR-19b on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced human intestinal cell inflammatory injury.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Caco2 cells were treated with 10 ng/ml LPS to induce inflammatory injury. The expression of miR-19b and runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) was changed in Caco2 cells by cell transfection. Then, the viability, apoptosis and pro-inflammatory factors expressions of transfected cells were assessed using trypan blue exclusion assay, flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), respectively, after LPS treatment. At last, the expressions of key factors involved in nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase 3 (PI3K/AKT) pathways were evaluated using Western blotting.RESULTS: LPS significantly induced Caco2 cell inflammatory injury, down-regulated miR-19b expression and activated NF-κB and PI3K/AKT pathways. Suppression of miR-19b enhanced the LPS-induced Caco2 cell inflammatory injury, as well as NF-κB and PI3K/AKT pathways activation. Overexpression of miR-19b had opposite effects. In addition, miR-19b regulated the expression of Runx3 in Caco2 cells. Overexpression of Runx3 reversed the miR-19b knockdown-induced Caco2 cell viability inhibition, apoptosis enhancement, inflammatory factors expressions and NF-κB and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways activation.CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that miR-19b alleviated LPS-induced Caco2 cell inflammatory injury via up-regulation of Runx3 and deactivation of NF-κB and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways.
BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis is a common autoimmune disorder influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. Epigenome-wide association studies can identify environmentally mediated epigenetic changes such as altered DNA methylation, which may also be influenced by genetic factors. To investigate possible contributions of DNA methylation to the aetiology of rheumatoid arthritis with minimum confounding genetic heterogeneity, we investigated genome-wide DNA methylation in disease-discordant monozygotic twin pairs.METHODS: Genome-wide DNA methylation was assessed in 79 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for rheumatoid arthritis using the HumanMethylation450 BeadChip array (Illumina). Discordant twins were tested for both differential DNA methylation and methylation variability between rheumatoid arthritis and healthy twins. The methylation variability signature was then compared with methylation variants from studies of other autoimmune diseases and with an independent healthy population.RESULTS: We have identified a differentially variable DNA methylation signature that suggests multiple stress response pathways may be involved in the aetiology of the disease. This methylation variability signature also highlighted potential epigenetic disruption of multiple RUNX3 transcription factor binding sites as being associated with disease development. Comparison with previously performed epigenome-wide association studies of rheumatoid arthritis and type 1 diabetes identified shared pathways for autoimmune disorders, suggesting that epigenetics plays a role in autoimmunity and offering the possibility of identifying new targets for intervention.CONCLUSIONS: Through genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation in disease-discordant monozygotic twins, we have identified a differentially variable DNA methylation signature, in the absence of differential methylation in rheumatoid arthritis. This finding supports the importance of epigenetic variability as an emerging component in autoimmune disorders.
The role of Runt-related transcription factor 3 ( RUNX3) gene in breast cancer remains not fully understood. We studied the correlation between RUNX3 gene promoter methylation and estrogen receptor (ER) expression status in breast cancer. Three breast cancer cell lines and 113 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue samples were analyzed for RUNX3 expression. Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction was used to analyze RUNX3 methylation on the samples. Migration and invasion ability were evaluated in MCF7 cell line (RUNX3 methylated) treated with methylation inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) to study the effect of RUNX3 methylation status. Our data showed that the expression of RUNX3 was high in MCF10A but not in MCF7 and SKBR3 cell lines, while the RUNX3 promoter showed hypermethylation in MCF7 but not in MCF10A and SKBR3. In tissues samples, Immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of RUNX3 protein was higher in ER-negative samples than in ER-positive cases, and it was negatively correlated with the methylation status of the RUNX3 gene promoter. Proliferation, migration, and invasion of MCF7 were suppressed when 5-Aza-CdR treated. Also, the hypermethylation status of RUNX3 gene promoter was reversed and RUNX3 expression was increased. In summary, our data suggest that hypermethylation of the RUNX3 gene promoter may play an important role in ER-positive breast tumor progression.
A fundamental benefit of immunological memory is the ability to respond in an enhanced manner upon secondary encounter with the same pathogen. Tissue-resident memory CD8 T (TRM) cells contribute to improved protection against reinfection through the generation of immediate effector responses at the site of pathogen entry. Key to the potential of TRM cells to develop rapid recall responses is their location within the epithelia of the skin, lungs, and intestines at prime entry sites of pathogens. TRM cells are among the first immune cells to respond to pathogens that have been previously encountered in an antigen-specific manner. Upon recognition of invading pathogens, TRM cells release IFN-γ and other pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. These effector molecules activate the surrounding epithelial tissue and recruit other immune cells including natural killer (NK) cells, B cells, and circulating memory CD8 T cells to the site of infection. The repertoire of TRM effector functions also includes the direct lysis of infected cells through the release of cytotoxic molecules such as perforin and granzymes. The mechanisms enabling TRM cells to respond in such a rapid manner are gradually being uncovered. In this review, we will address the signals that instruct TRM generation and maintenance as well as the underlying transcriptional network that keeps TRM cells in a deployment-ready modus. Furthermore, we will discuss how TRM cells respond to reinfection of the tissue and how transcription factors may control immediate and proliferative TRM responses.
Touch and mechanical sensations require the development of several different kinds of sensory neurons dedicated to respond to certain types of mechanical stimuli. The transcription factor Shox2 (short stature homeobox 2) is involved in the generation of TRKB+ low-threshold mechanoreceptors (LTMRs), but mechanisms terminating this program and allowing alternative fates are unknown. Here, we show that the conditional loss of the miR-183-96-182 cluster in mouse leads to a failure of extinction of Shox2 during development and an increase in the proportion of Aδ LTMRs (TRKB+/NECAB2+) neurons at the expense of Aβ slowly adapting (SA)-LTMRs (TRKC+/Runx3-) neurons. Conversely, overexpression of miR-183 cluster that represses Shox2 expression, or loss of Shox2, both increase the Aβ SA-LTMRs population at the expense of Aδ LTMRs. Our results suggest that the miR-183 cluster determines the timing of Shox2 expression by direct targeting during development, and through this determines the population sizes of Aδ LTMRs and Aβ SA-LTMRs.
AIM: The prevalence and mortality rates of lung cancer in Xuanwei, Yunnan, China, are the highest in the world. The severe indoor air pollution caused by smoky coals with high benzo (a)pyrene (BaP) and quartz levels is the main environmental factor. The aim of this study was to investigate methylation profiles of promoters in eight genes in primary non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC) exposed to smoky coals.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Candidate genes including CDKN2A, DLEC1, CDH1, DAPK, RUNX3, APC, WIF1 and MGMT were determined for the promoter methylation status using Nested methylation-specific PCR (nMSP) in primary 23NSCLC tissues and in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) isolated from 42plasma samples (9matched to tissues) as well as 10healthy plasma samples, using Sanger sequencing to verify the results.RESULTS: Seven of the 8genes, except MGMT, had relatively high methylation frequencies ranging from 39%-74% in tissues. Moreover, methylation frequencies in five genes identified in lung cancer plasma were 45% for CDKN2A, 48% for DLEC1, 76% for CDH1, 14% for DAPK, 29% for RUNX3, with a relatively good concordance of methylation among 9 tissues and paired plasma. However, the genes from all healthy plasma showed no methylation.CONCLUSIONS: A panel of genes including CDKN2A, DLEC1, CDH1, DAPK and RUNX3 may be used as potential epigenetic biomarkers for early lung cancer detection. CDH1 promoter methylation was associated with lung cancer metastasis in areas of air pollution from buring of smoky coals. DLEC1 and CDH1 exhibited specific high methylation frequencies, different from previous reports.
The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway is a pivotal genome maintenance network that orchestrates the repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs). The tumor suppressors RUNX1 and RUNX3 were shown to regulate the FA pathway independent of their canonical transcription activities, by controlling the DNA damage-dependent chromatin association of FANCD2. Here, in further biochemical characterization, we demonstrate that RUNX3 is modified by PARP-dependent poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation (PARylation), which in turn allows RUNX binding to DNA repair structures lacking transcription-related RUNX consensus motifs. SILAC-based mass spectrometric analysis revealed significant association of RUNX3 with core DNA repair complexes, including PARP1, even in unstressed cells. After DNA damage, the increased interaction between RUNX3 and BLM facilitates efficient FANCD2 chromatin localization. RUNX-Walker motif mutations from breast cancers are impaired for DNA damage-inducible PARylation, unveiling a potential mechanism for FA pathway inactivation in cancers. Our results reinforce the emerging paradigm that RUNX proteins are tumor suppressors with genome gatekeeper function.
In mammals, both runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and c-Myc are the downstream effectors of transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) signaling to mediate various cellular responses. However, information of their interaction especially in fish is lacking. In the present study, grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella) runx3 (gcrunx3) cDNA was cloned and identified. Interestingly, opposing effects of recombinant grass carp TGF-β1 (rgcTGF-β1) on c-myc and runx3 mRNA expression were observed in grass carp periphery blood lymphocytes (PBLs). Parallelly, Runx3 protein levels were enhanced by rgcTGF-β1 in the cells. These findings prompted us to examine whether Runx3 can mediate the inhibition of TGF-β1 on c-myc expression in fish cells. In line with this, overexpression of grass carp Runx3 and Runx3 DN (a dominant-negative form of Runx3) in grass carp kidney cell line (CIK) cells decreased and increased c-myc transcript levels, respectively. Particularly, the regulation of Runx3 and Runx3 DN on c-myc mRNA expression was direct since they were presented in the nucleus without any stimulation. In addition, rgcTGF-β1 alone suppressed c-myc mRNA expression in CIK cells as in PBLs. Moreover, this inhibitory effect was also observed when grass carp Runx3 and Runx3 DN were overexpressed. These results strengthened the role of TGF-β1 signaling in controlling c-myc transcription. Taken together, TGF-β1-mediated c-myc expression was affected at least in part by Runx3, thereby firstly exploring the functional role of Runx3 in TGF-β1 down-regulation on c-myc mRNA expression in fish.
BANK1 is a susceptibility gene for several systemic autoimmune diseases in several populations. Using the genome-wide association study (GWAS) data from Europeans (EUR) and African Americans (AA), we performed an extensive fine mapping of ankyrin repeats 1 (BANK1). To increase the SNP density, we used imputation followed by univariate and conditional analysis, combined with a haplotypic and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis. The data from Europeans showed that the associated region was restricted to a minimal and dependent set of SNPs covering introns two and three, and exon two. In AA, the signal found in the Europeans was split into two independent effects. All of the major risk associated SNPs were eQTLs, and the risks were associated with an increased BANK1 gene expression. Functional annotation analysis revealed the enrichment of repressive B cell epigenomic marks (EZH2 and H3K27me3) and a strong enrichment of splice junctions. Furthermore, one eQTL located in intron two, rs13106926, was found within the binding site for RUNX3, a transcriptional activator. These results connect the local genome topography, chromatin structure, and the regulatory landscape of BANK1 with co-transcriptional splicing of exon two. Our data defines a minimal set of risk associated eQTLs predicted to be involved in the expression of BANK1 modulated through epigenetic regulation and splicing. These findings allow us to suggest that the increased expression of BANK1 will have an impact on B-cell mediated disease pathways.
Author information:(1)School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China.(2)Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 730000, China.(3)Department of Pathology, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 730000, China.(4)The Key Laboratory of the Digestive System Tumors of Gansu Province, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 730000, China.(5)School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, China drliym125@sina.com.(6)Department of General Surgery, Lanzhou University Second Hospital, Lanzhou 730000, China.
Potential interaction between immune response and axonal regeneration has recently attracted much attention in peripheral nervous system (PNS). Previously, global mRNA expression changes in proximal nerve segments were profiled and merely focused on the differentially change of the key biological processes. To further uncover molecular mechanisms of peripheral nerve regeneration, here we focused on the interaction between immune response and axonal regeneration that associated with specific molecular pathways and interactive networks following sciatic nerve transection. To offer an outline of the specific molecular pathways elaborating axonal regeneration and immune response, and to figure out the molecular interaction between immune response and axonal regeneration post-sciatic nerve transection, we carried out comprehensive approaches, including gene expression profiling plus multi-level bioinformatics analysis and then further experimental validation. Alcam, Nrp1, Nrp2, Rac1, Creb1, and Runx3 were firstly considered as the key or hub genes of the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network in rat models of sciatic nerve transection, which are highly correlated with immune response and axonal regeneration. Our work provide a new way to figure out molecular mechanism of peripheral nerve regeneration and valuable resources to figure out the molecular courses which outline neural injury-induced micro-environmental variation to discover novel therapeutic targets for axonal regeneration.
Differences in tumor characteristics might partially account for mortality disparities between African American (AA) and European American (EA) colorectal cancer patients. We evaluated effect modification by race for exposure and patient-outcomes associations with colorectal tumor methylation among 218 AA and 267 EA colorectal cancer cases from the population-based North Carolina Colon Cancer Study. Tumor methylation was assessed in CACNA1G, MLH1, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1. We used logistic regression to assess whether associations between several lifestyle factors-intake of fruits, vegetables, folate, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs-and tumor methylation were modified by race. Proportional hazards models were used to evaluate whether race modified associations between tumor methylation and time to all-cause mortality. Greater fruit consumption was associated with greater odds of high NEUROG1 methylation among EA at methylation cut points of 15-35% (maximum OR 3.44, 95% CI 1.66, 7.13) but not among AA. Higher folate intake was associated with lower odds of high CACNA1G methylation among EAs but not AAs. Tumor methylation was not associated with all-cause mortality for either group. Race might modify associations between lifestyle factors and colorectal tumor methylation, but in this sample did not appear to modify associations between tumor methylation and all-cause mortality.
Purpose: There are conflicting results concerning the prognostic value of the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) in patients with nonmetastatic colon cancer. We studied this phenotype in stage III colon cancer characterized for mismatch repair (MMR), RAS, and BRAF status, and treated with adjuvant FOLFOX-based regimen.Experimental Design: Tumor samples of 1,907 patients enrolled in the PETACC-8 adjuvant phase III trial were analyzed. The method used was methylation-specific PCR, where CIMP+ status was defined by methylation of at least 3 of 5 following genes: IGF2, CACNA1G, NEUROG1, SOCS1, and RUNX3 Association between CIMP status and overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), and survival after recurrence (SAR), was assessed by Cox model adjusted for prognostic factors and treatment arm (FOLFOX4 ± cetuximab).Results: CIMP status was successfully determined in 1,867 patients (97.9%): 275 (14.7%) tumors were CIMP+ Compared with CIMP- patients, CIMP+ patients were more frequently older (P = 0.002), females (P = 0.04), with right-sided (P < 0.0001), grade 3-4 (P < 0.0001), pN2 (P = 0.001), dMMR (P < 0.0001), BRAF mutated (P < 0.0001), and RAS wild-type (P < 0.0001) tumors. In multivariate analysis, CIMP+ status was associated with shorter OS [HR, 1.46; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.02-1.94; P = 0.04] and SAR [HR, 1.76; 95% CI, 1.20-2.56; P < 0.0004]; but not DFS [HR, 1.15; 95% CI, 0.86-1.54; P = 0.34]. A nonsignificant trend of detrimental effect of cetuximab was observed in patients with CIMP+ tumors for OS, DFS, and SAR.Conclusions: In a large cohort of well-defined patients with stage III colon cancer, CIMP+ phenotype is associated with a shorter OS and SAR but not to DFS. Clin Cancer Res; 24(19); 4745-53. ©2018 AACR.
INTRODUCTION: Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) exerts a tumor suppressor gene associated with gastric and other cancers, including glioma. However, how its anti-tumor mechanism in functions glioma is unclear.METHODS: We assayed expression of RUNX3 with a tissue microarray (TMA), frozen cancer tissues and malignant glioma cell lines using immunohistochemistry, qRT-PCR and Western bolt analysis. Cell proliferation, invasion, cell cycle distribution and apoptosis were also examined to confirm the effect of RUNX3 medicated malignant phenotype. TOP/FOP experiment was used to detect the β-catenin/Tcf-4 transcription activity by RUNX3.RESULTS: Enforced RUNX3 expression inhibited proliferation and invasion, induced cell cycle arrest and promoted apoptosis in vitro and in vivo, Bim siRNA partically reversed the effect of RUNX3-induced apoptosis in LN229 and U87 cells, suggesting a dependent role of Bim-caspase pathway. Moreover, Mechanism investigations revealed that restoration of RUNX3 suppressed β-catenin/Tcf-4 transcription activity.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX3 plays a pivotal role in glioma initiation and progression as a tumor suppressor via attenuation of Wnt signaling, highlighting it as a potential therapeutic target for glioma.
The potential mechanism of miRNA released from adipose-derived stem cell (ADSC)-derived micro vesicle (MV) onthe modulation of proliferation, migration and invasion of endothelial cells were explored. In this study, miR-210 level was detected by qT-PCR. Alix, VEGF and RUNX3 expressions were detected by Western blot. The proliferation, migration and invasion of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were observed by MTT assay and Transwell assay. Luciferase reporter gene assay was conducted to validate the targeting activity of MVs-released miR-210 on RUNX3. We found hypoxia significantly increased the expression of MVs-released miR-210. MVs released from ADSCsin hypoxic group significantly promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of HUVECs. Overexpression of miR-210 significantly upregulated VEGF expression, and promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of HUVECs. Besides, RUNX3 was identified as the direct of miR-210 in HUVECs. Overexpression of miR-210 decreased RUNX3 expression and promoted the proliferation, migration and invasion of HUVECs, while overexpression of RUNX3 inhibited these promotion effects. In vivo experiment showed that MVs derived from ADSCs under hypoxia increased miR-210 level and capillary density, and inhibition of miR-210 decreased capillary density. We also found MVs downregulated RUNX3 expression, and inhibition of miR-210 upregulated RUNX3 expression. Therefore, miR-210 released from ADSCs-derived MVs promoted proliferation, migration and invasion of HUVECs by targeting RUNX3, which revealed one of the mechanisms of ADSCs-derived MVs on the promotion of proliferation, migration and invasion of HUVECs.ABBREVIATIONS: ADSC, adipose-derived stem cell; MV, micro vesicle; HUVECs, human umbilical vein endothelial cells; RUNX3, Runtrelatedtranscription factor-3.
Increasing evidence showed that microRNAs (miRNAs) were abnormally expressed in cancers and made effects on the tumorigenesis. Aberrant expression of miR-20a-5p has been reported in human breast carcinoma. However, the functional mechanism of miR-20a-5p in human breast carcinoma, particularly in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), required further investigations. Here, firstly, we determined that miR-20a-5p was highly expressed in both TNBC tissues and cell lines. Then, we explored that the overexpression of miR-20a-5p promoted the migration and invasion of TNBC cells in vitro. The tendency was significantly reversed after the depletion of miR-20a-5p. Consistent result could be obtained with the in vivo nude mice tumorigenesis. Thirdly, the underlying molecular mechanism was investigated. The Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was identified as a target of miR-20a-5p in TNBC cells. High expression of miR-20a-5p significantly decreased both the mRNA and protein levels of RUNX3, as well as its direct downstream targets Bim and p21. These results verified the significance of miR-20a-5p and explored its functional mechanisms in TNBC, suggesting the potential clinical applications of miR-20a-5p in TNBC.
Previous studies have demonstrated that microRNAs (miRs) are involved in the carcinogenesis of colorectal cancer (CRC). To the best of our knowledge, the function and regulatory role of miR-532-5p in human CRC remains unknown. The aim of the present study was to determine the role and regulation of miR-532-5p in CRC. Using the reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction, it was demonstrated that miR-532-5p was upregulated, whereas runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was downregulated in CRC tissues. The upregulated miR-532-5p was associated with the downregulated RUNX3. Furthermore, the two biomarkers were associated with numerous clinicopathological characteristics of CRC, including tumor stage, lymph node involvement, differentiation, vessel invasion and tumor recurrence. The in vitro luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that transfection with miR-532-5p mimic markedly downregulated the RUNX3 mRNA and protein levels, via specific binding to the 5'-untranslated region of RUNX3 in human HT-29 CRC cells. In addition, an MTT assay and a colony formation assay demonstrated that miR-532-5p overexpression led to increased tumor cell viability and colony formation ability of HT-29 cells. In conclusion, the results of the present study indicate that miR-532-5p may function as an oncogenic miRNA by promoting cell growth in human CRC cells, and such promotion is associated with the targeted inhibition of RUNX3.
Emerging evidence has demonstrated that the deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) contributes to Wilms' tumour (WT) malignant progression. Therefore, identifying the essential miRNAs for WT onset and progression may be a promising therapeutic method for patients with this disease. Dysregulation of miRNA‑199b (miR‑199b) serves significant roles in various types of human cancer. However, its expression patterns, possible functions and associated mechanisms in WT are largely unknown. In the present study, the expression of miR‑199b in WT tissues was detected by reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT‑qPCR) analysis. The biological functions of miR‑199b overexpression in WT cells were determined using Cell counting kit‑8 and Transwell invasion assays. The mechanisms underlying the action of miR‑199b in WT cells were also investigated using bioinformatics analysis, a luciferase reporter assay, RT‑qPCR and western blot analysis. It was revealed that miR‑199b expression was upregulated in WT tissues. In addition, the downregulation of miR‑199b attenuated the proliferation and invasion of WT cells. Runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was mechanistically predicted as a potential target of miR‑199b. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that RUNX3 was a direct target gene of miR‑199b in WT. In addition, the downregulation of RUNX3 in the WT tissues was inversely correlated with the miR‑199b expression level. The recovered RUNX3 expression counteracted the oncogenic roles of miR‑199b in WT cells. Therefore miR‑199b may serve as an oncogene in WT progression by directly targeting RUNX3, thereby suggesting that the miR‑199b/RUNX3 axis may be a promising therapeutic target for patients with WT.
Erratum in    Oncol Lett. 2019 Mar;17(3):3035.
SCOPE: Searching for correlations between dietary polyphenols and risk of chronic diseases has been a challenge due to the lack of quantitative evaluation methods of long-term exposure. We previously observed substantial DNA methylation changes in human cancer cells upon treatment with polyphenols of the stilbenoid class. When induced in normal cells, such molecular changes may persist and reflect chronic exposure.METHODS AND RESULTS: Illumina 450K microarray is used to delineate a genome wide DNA methylation landscape in MCF10A human immortalized mammary epithelial cells exposed to resveratrol (RSV) at noncytotoxic 15 μM dose for 9 days. Subtle alterations are observed suggesting remodeling of DNA methylation patterns rather than switch on/off changes. Using pyrosequencing, DNA methylation is quantitatively measured at eight CpG sites located within KCNJ4, RNF169, BCHE, DAOA, HOXA9, RUNX3, KRTAP2-1, and TAGAP, upon exposure to RSV or pterostilbene and shows similar differences induced by both stilbenoids. Two of the probes, Runx3 and Kcnj4, are successfully verified in whole blood DNA from healthy rats on diets supplemented with stilbenoids.CONCLUSIONS: The study provides strong support for testing the utility of polyphenol-mediated changes in DNA methylation as quantitative measures of long-term dietary exposures in nutritional epidemiology and clinical trials.
BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to discover DNA methylation biomarkers for detecting non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) in bronchial washings and understanding the association between DNA methylation and smoking cessation.METHODS: DNA methylation was analyzed in bronchial washing samples from 70 NSCLCs and 53 hospital-based controls using Illumina HumanMethylation450K BeadChip. Methylation levels in these bronchial washings were compared to those in 897 primary lung tissues of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data.RESULTS: Twenty-four CpGs (p < 1.03E-07) were significantly methylated in bronchial washings from 70 NSCLC patients compared to those from 53 controls. The CpGs also had significant methylation in the TCGA cohort. The 123 participants were divided into a training set (N = 82) and a test set (N = 41) to build a classification model. Logistic regression model showed the best performance for classification of lung cancer in bronchial washing samples: the sensitivity and specificity of a marker panel consisting of seven CpGs in TFAP2A, TBX15, PHF11, TOX2, PRR15, PDGFRA, and HOXA11 genes were 87.0 and 83.3% in the test set, respectively. The area under the curve (AUC) was equal to 0.87 (95% confidence interval = 0.73-0.96, p < 0.001). Methylation levels of two CpGs in RUNX3 and MIR196A1 genes were inversely associated with duration of smoking cessation in the controls, but not in NSCLCs, after adjusting for pack-years of smoking.CONCLUSIONS: The present study suggests that NSCLC may be detected by analyzing methylation changes of seven CpGs in bronchial washings. Furthermore, smoking cessation may lead to decreased DNA methylation in nonmalignant bronchial epithelial cells in a gene-specific manner.
Erratum in    Mol Med Rep. 2019 May;19(5):3956.
PURPOSE: Helicobacter pylori infection induces phenotype-stabilizing methylation and promotes gastric mucosal atrophy that can inhibit CpG-island methylation. Relationship between the progression of gastric mucosal atrophy and the initiation of CpG-island methylation was analyzed to delineate epigenetic period for neoplastic transformation.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Normal-appearing gastric mucosa was biopsied from 110 H. pylori-positive controls, 95 H. pylori-negative controls, 99 gastric cancer patients, and 118 gastric dysplasia patients. Gastric atrophy was assessed using endoscopic-atrophic-border score. Methylation-variable sites of eight CpG-island genes adjacent to Alu (CDH1, ARRDC4, PPARG, and TRAPPC2L) or LTR (MMP2, CDKN2A, RUNX2, and RUNX3) retroelements and stomach-specific TFF3 gene were analyzed using radioisotope-labeled methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: Mean ages of H. pylori-positive controls with mild, moderate, and severe atrophy were 51, 54, and 65 years and those of H. pylori-associated TFF3 overmethylation at the three atrophic levels (51, 58, and 63 years) tended to be periodic. Alu-adjacent overmethylation (50 years) was earlier than TFF3 overmethylation (58 years) in H. pylori-positive controls with moderate atrophy. Cancer patients with moderate atrophy showed late Alu-adjacent (58 years) overmethylation and frequent LTR-adjacent overmethylation. LTR-adjacent overmethylation was frequent in cancer (66 years) and dysplasia (68 years) patients with severe atrophy.CONCLUSION: Atrophic progression is associated with gastric cancer at moderate level by impeding the initiation of Alu-adjacent methylation. LTR-adjacent methylation is increased in cancer patients and subsequently in dysplasia patients.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Emerging evidence points towards an important role of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) in the tumorigenesis and progression of gastric cancer (GC). MT1JP has recently been reported to be differentially expressed and act as a tumor suppressor in different tumors, with its mechanisms not fully understood in GC.METHODS: RT-qPCR was used to detect the expression of MT1JP, miR-214-3p and RUNX3 in tumor tissues and cell lines of GC. The CCK-8 assay, colony formation, Transwell assay and wound healing assay were used to evaluate the proliferation, invasion and migration of GC cells, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis and luciferase reporter assay were performed to disclose the interaction between MT1JP, miR-214-3p and RUNX3. Western blot and immunofluorescence were applied to assess the downstream signaling of RUNX3.RESULTS: MT1JP was found downregulated in GC tissues and cells. Low expression of MT1JP was significantly correlated with advanced TNM stage and lymphatic metastasis. The expression of plasma MT1JP was also found decreased in GC patients compared to healthy controls, with an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.649 for diagnosis of GC. Gain- and loss-of-function of MT1JP revealed that MT1JP functioned as a ceRNA for miR-214-3p to facilitate RUNX3 expression and then upregulated p21 and Bim levels suppressing GC cell proliferation, invasion and migration, and promoting apoptosis. Furthermore, MT1JP overexpression suppressed tumor growth and inhibited the expression of miR-214-3p and proliferation antigen Ki-67, but increased the expression of RUNX3, p21 and Bim in vivo.CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a potential ceRNA regulatory network involving MT1JP regulates RUNX3 expression by competitively binding endogenous miR-214-3p in tumorigenesis and progression of GC. This mechanism may contribute to a better understanding of GC pathogenesis and provide potential therapeutic strategy for GC.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the mRNA expression level of the runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) genes in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The etiology of AML is not yet fully known, but certain genetic factors may contribute to its manifestation. The RUNX1 and RUNX3 genes have been demonstrated to serve a role in the transcription process. The group investigated in the present study included 43 patients diagnosed with AML, and the relative RUNX1 and RUNX3 expression levels were determined using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction. The results indicated that RUNX1 and RUNX3 expression was associated with clinicopathological features, including sex and mortality risk. Expression levels of the RUNX1 gene were higher and more variable among females (P=0.044), and mortality was more frequent among patients with a higher RUNX3 expression level (P=0.036). The data obtained from the present study suggested that RUNX3 expression may have potential value as a prognostic factor; furthermore, sex is potentially a factor that may affect the difference in RUNX1 gene expression level among females and males. Further analyses in this field will aid in the identification and elucidation of the molecular basis of leukemia.
Helper versus cytotoxic T lineage decision in the thymus has been studied as a model for silencing of alternative lineage genes. Although the transcription factor RUNX3 is required for the initiation of Cd4 silencing in developing CD8 T cells, it is unknown how silencing of Cd4 and other helper T lineage genes is maintained. We show that the histone methyltransferase G9a is necessary for silencing helper T lineage genes in proliferating mouse CD8 T cells. Despite normal initial Cd4 downregulation, G9a-deficient CD8 T cells derepress Cd4 and other helper lineage genes during repeated division in lymphopenia or in response to tumor Ag. However, G9a was dispensable for continued silencing of those genes in CD8 T cells that respond to infection by Listeria monocytogenes These results demonstrate that G9a facilitates maintenance of cellular identity of CD8 T cells during cell division, which is further reinforced by inflammatory signals.
Arylamine N-acetyltransferase (NAT; E.C. 2.3.1.5) enzymes are responsible for the biotransformation of several arylamine and hydrazine drugs by acetylation. In this process, the acetyl group transferred to the acceptor substrate produces NAT deacetylation and, in consequence, it is susceptible of degradation. Sirtuins are protein deacetylases, dependent on nicotine adenine dinucleotide, which perform post-translational modifications on cytosolic proteins. To explore possible sirtuin participation in the enzymatic activity of arylamine NATs, the expression levels of NAT1, NAT2, SIRT1 and SIRT6 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from healthy subjects were examined by flow cytometry and Western blot. The in situ activity of the sirtuins on NAT enzymatic activity was analyzed by HPLC, in the presence or absence of an agonist (resveratrol) and inhibitor (nicotinamide) of sirtuins. We detected a higher percentage of positive cells for NAT2 in comparison with NAT1, and higher numbers of SIRT1+ cells compared to SIRT6 in lymphocytes. In situ NAT2 activity in the presence of NAM inhibitors was higher than in the presence of its substrate, but not in the presence of resveratrol. In contrast, the activity of NAT1 was not affected by sirtuins. These results showed that NAT2 activity might be modified by sirtuins.
The transcription factor RUNX3 is a prominent regulator of multiple hematopoietic cell lineages. Gene loss of function studies demonstrated the unique and essential roles of this master regulator in differentiated lymphoid and myeloid cells. As a complementary approach, RUNX3 was upregulated in various leukocyte subsets to probe the instructive role of this 'multilineage'-specific transcription factor. In this report, we overview the immunomodulatory functions of RUNX3 within the hematopoietic compartment to gain insight into the consequences of Runx3 deletion or overexpression in committed immune cells. Genetic studies revealed the essential role of RUNX3 in Langerhans cell development. Moreover, this transcription factor is necessary for the differentiation and maintenance of the cytotoxic CD8+ T cells. In addition, T helper, natural killer, and B cells are also influenced by RUNX3. Importantly, the ectopic expression of Runx3 enhances the immunogenicity of cytotoxic T cells and pluripotent stem-cell-derived dendritic cells, suggesting that this protein can be applied in cell-based immunotherapies.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2018 Jul 19;9(1):2901.
Loss of runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported in various cancers, and one of the mechanisms mediating loss of RUNX3 expression is DNA methylation. However, the role of RUNX3 expression and its DNA methylation status as prognostic factors in endometrial cancer remain unclear. In the present study, the expression and promoter methylation of RUNX3 was examined in endometrial cancer tissues and cell lines, as well as their association with endometrial cancer prognosis. Fifty‑five endometrial cancer tissues and two endometrial cancer cell lines (HEC1‑α and Ishikawa) were studied. RUNX3 expression and promoter methylation were examined using reverse transcription‑polymerase chain reaction (RT‑PCR), methylation specific PCR (MS‑PCR), and immunohistochemical staining. The demethylating agent 5‑aza‑2'‑deoxycytidine (ADC) was used to reverse the methylation of the RUNX3 promoter. Loss of RUNX3 expression was observed in 50.9% (27/53) of endometrial cancer tissues and in the HEC1‑α cell line by immunohistochemistry and RT‑PCR, respectively. Methylation of the RUNX3 promoter was observed in 62.2% (33/53) of endometrial cancer tissues, 12.5% (1/8) of normal endometrial tissues, and the HEC1‑α cell line by MS‑PCR. Tumor grade and stage were significantly correlated with loss of RUNX3 expression. The expression of RUNX3 was restored by treatment with ADC and resulted in growth inhibition in HEC1‑α cells. The present results suggested that methylation may serve a critical role in the silencing of RUNX3 and loss of RUNX3 expression may serve as a prognostic marker in endometrial cancer.
A fundamental question in developmental immunology is how bipotential thymocyte precursors generate both CD4+ helper and CD8+ cytotoxic T cell lineages. The MHC specificity of αβ T cell receptors (TCRs) on precursors is closely correlated with cell fate-determining processes, prompting studies to characterize how variations in TCR signaling are linked with genetic programs establishing lineage-specific gene expression signatures, such as exclusive CD4 or CD8 expression. The key transcription factors ThPOK and Runx3 have been identified as mediating development of helper and cytotoxic T cell lineages, respectively. Together with increasing knowledge of epigenetic regulators, these findings have advanced our understanding of the transcription factor network regulating the CD4/CD8 dichotomy. It has also become apparent that CD4+ T cells retain developmental plasticity, allowing them to acquire cytotoxic activity in the periphery. Despite such advances, further studies are necessary to identify the molecular links between TCR signaling and the nuclear machinery regulating expression of ThPOK and Runx3.
The chondrogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) is mediated by transcription factors and small noncoding RNAs such as microRNAs (miRNAs). Each miRNA is initially transcribed as a long transcript, which matures to produce -5p and -3p strands. It is widely believed that the mature and functional miRNA from any given pre-miRNA, usually the -5p strand, is functional, while the opposing -3p strand is degraded. However, recent cartilage literature started to show functional -3p strands for a few miRNAs. This study aimed at examining both -5p and -3p strands of two key miRNAs miR-140 and miR-145, known to be involved in the chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs. The level (copy number) of both -5p and -3p strands of miR-145 and miR-140 along the time line of MSC chondrogenic differentiation was determined by polymerase chain reaction. The gene expression profiles of several genes related to MSC chondrogenesis were compared with these miRNA profiles along the same timeline. While miR-145-3p is declining in step with miR-145-5p in pellet cultures during the process, the -3p strand is only 1-2% of the total miR-145 products. In contrast, the mature -3p and -5p products of miR-140 are found to increase with near-equal molar expression throughout chondrogenic differentiation. Numerous genes are expressed by cartilage progenitor cells during development. One such target gene, Sox9, is a regulatory target of the dominant miR-145-5p, consistent with the data. Further experimental validations are warranted to confirm that ACAN, FOXO1, and RUNX3 as direct targets of miR-145-5p in the context of MSC chondrogenesis. Similarly, TRSP1 and ACAN are worth further validation as direct targets of miR-145-3p. For miR-140, SOX4 shall be further validated as a direct target of miR-140-5p, while KLF4, PTHLH, and WNT5A can be validated as direct targets of miR-140-3p.
Comment in    Immunity. 2018 Apr 17;48(4):614-615.
Comment on    Immunity. 2018 Apr 17;48(4):659-674.e6.
BACKGROUND: Renal cell carcinoma accounts for 2-3% of all cancers and metastasis increased the malignancy of renal cancer. However, the role of methylation in metastasis of renal cancer is poorly understood.METHODS: We performed targeted gene array to compare the differential expressions of methylation regulated genes in metastatic and primary renal cancer tissues. Quantitative methylation specific PCR was performed to examine the CpG methylation levels of Runt related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and transforming growth factor (TGF)-β. Western blot was performed to detect the expression of target genes. Murine xenograft renal cancer model was established to assay gene expression, methylation level, tumor growth and animal survival in vivo.RESULTS: RUNX3 and TGF-β levels were decreased in metastatic renal cancer tissues as a result of their CpG methylation. Metastatic xenograft model displayed decreased expression levels of RUNX3 and TGF-β and higher CpG methylation levels, bigger tumor size and shorter survival time, all which were restored by treatment with a methylation inhibitor.CONCLUSIONS: Hypermethylation in CpG islands promotes metastasis of renal cancer and is associated with TGF-β and RUNX3 inhibition.
OBJECTIVES: Gastric adenocarcinoma of the fundic gland type (GA-FG) is a newly described entity with a lack of awareness amongst general surgical pathologists and this review highlights the key features and controversies associated with this uncommon neoplasm.METHODS: A literature search through PubMed using synonyms for GA-FG was conducted to obtain 111 cases.RESULTS: GA-FG is a well-differentiated neoplasm of oxyntic mucosa, that is comprised of chief cells and parietal cells. Chief cell differentiation is highlighted with Muc-6, RUNX3, and pepsinogen. Parietal cells are highlighted with H+/K+ ATPase and PDGFRA-α. Association with Helicobacter infection, chronic gastritis, intestinal metaplasia, or gastric atrophy is not seen. Most GA-FGs are confined to the mucosa. Deeper invasion, lymphovascular invasion, nodal metastasis, and extragastric spread are uncommon.CONCLUSIONS: GA-FGs are rare lesions that typically follow a benign course. However, despite features of malignancy in some cases, complete surgical excision, sometimes with endoscopic mucosal resection, seems adequate treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To study the potential role of miR-544 in the immune escape mechanism of hepatoma cells.METHODS: Natural killer (NK) cells were collected from healthy volunteers and patients with liver cancer. Interleukin (IL)-2 activated-NK-92 cells were transfected with miR-544 inhibitor/mimic or NC/pre-NC in HepG2 co-culture system. NK-92 cells were treated with control, IL-2, IL-2 + pre-NC, IL-2 + miR-544 mimic, IL-2 + miR-544 mimic + pcDNA and IL-2 + miR-544 mimic + pcDNA-runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) groups. Mice models of liver cancer were well established. Expression of miR-544, natural cytotoxicity receptor 1 (NCR1) and RUNX3 were evaluated by quantitative real-time PCR and western blotting. Flow cytometry and ELISA were used to determine NK cell cytotoxicity and the levels of INF-γ, respectively.RESULTS: MiR-544 was upregulated while NCR1 and RUNX3 was downregulated in NK cells of patients with liver cancer. The levels of IFN-γ and miR-544 expression were increased and decreased in IL-2 activated-NK cells, respectively. Inversely, miR-544 overexpression inhibited NK cell cytotoxicity by downregulating IFN-γ. However, miR-544 directly targeted RUNX3 and negatively regulated NCR1. Furthermore, miR-544 promoted immune escape of hepatoma cells in vivo and in vitro.CONCLUSION: miR-544 promoted the immune escape of liver cancer cells by downregulating NCR1 via targeting RUNX3.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene promoter hypermethylation and gastric cancer risk by meta-analysis.METHODS: By searching Medline, PubMed, Embase, Cochrane, Ovid and CNKI electronic databases, the open published studies about the association between RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation and gastric cancer risk were screened. The hypermethylation rate in cancer tissue and autologous control tissue (normal gastric tissue of gastric cancer patients) were extracted from each included study. The odds ratio (OR) and corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI) of RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation in cancer tissue versus autologous control tissue of gastric cancer patients were pooled with random or fixed effect models. The publication bias was evaluated by Begg's funnel plot and Egger's line regression test.RESULTS: Finally, twenty three relevant studies were included in this meta-analysis. The hypermethylation rate in cancer tissue and autologous control tissue of gastric cancer patients were 0.56±0.16 and 0.18±0.22 respectively, which demonstrated a hypermethylation rate in cancer tissue significantly higher than that of autologous controls (P<0.05). A significant positive correlation of hypermethylation rate between cancer tissue and autologous control existed for the included 23 studies(rpearson =0.62, P<0.05). For significant heterogeneity across the studies, the OR was pooled by random effects model. The combined OR was 8.06 with the 95% CI of 5.73~11.32, which indicated the hypermethylation frequency in cancer tissue was higher than that of autologous controls.CONCLUSION: The RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation rate was much higher in cancer tissue than that of normal gastric tissue in patients with gastric cancer, which indicates a close association between gastric cancer and RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation. Furthermore, RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation may be a potential biomarker for gastric cancer diagnosis.
Hippo pathway target, YAP has emerged as an important player in solid tumor progression. Here, we identify RUNX1 and RUNX3 as novel negative regulators of oncogenic function of YAP in the context of breast cancer. RUNX proteins are one of the first transcription factors identified to interact with YAP. RUNX1 or RUNX3 expression abrogates YAP-mediated pro-tumorigenic properties of mammary epithelial cell lines in an interaction dependent manner. RUNX1 and RUNX3 inhibit YAP-mediated migration and stem-ness properties of mammary epithelial cell lines by co-regulating YAP-mediated gene expression. Analysis of whole genome expression profiles of breast cancer samples revealed significant co-relation between YAP-RUNX1/RUNX3 expression levels and survival outcomes of breast cancer patients. High RUNX1/RUNX3 expression proved protective towards YAP-dependent patient survival outcomes. High YAP in breast cancer patients' expression profiles co-related with EMT and stem-ness gene signature enrichment. High RUNX1/RUNX3 expression along with high YAP reflected lower enrichment of EMT and stem-ness signatures. This antagonistic activity of RUNX1 and RUNX3 towards oncogenic function of YAP identified in mammary epithelial cells as well as in breast cancer expression profiles gives a novel mechanistic insight into oncogene-tumor suppressor interplay in the context of breast cancer progression. The novel interplay between YAP, RUNX1 and RUNX3 and its significance in breast cancer progression can serve as a prognostic tool to predict cancer recurrence.
BACKGROUND: The relationship between expression of runt related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and clinicopathological parameters of the patients with gastric cancer (GC) is controversial.METHODS: The studies were retrieved from those already published essay in PubMed, EMBASE, Wan Fang, CNKI (China National Knowledge Infrastructure), the Cochrane Library and Google Scholar. All statistical tests in this meta-analysis were performed using Stata 10.0 software (Stata Corp, College Station, TX). A P value less than 0.05 was considered statistically significant.RESULTS: A total of nine studies involving 796 patients were included in final meta-analysis. The pooled data showed that expression of RUNX3 was significant correlated with tumor's differentiation (OR = 0.387; 95%CI: 0.237-0.633; P = 0.000), depth of invasion (OR = 0.443; 95%CI: 0.273-0.717; P = 0.001), lymph node metastasis (OR = 0.394; 95%CI: 0.259-0.598; P = 0.000), distant metastasis (OR = 0.403; 95%CI: 0.213-0.764; P = 0.005) and TNM stage (OR = 0.461; 95%CI, 0.322-0.659; P = 0.000) in GC. Expression of RUNX3 was significant correlated with good overall survival (OS) [1-year OS (OR = 2.735; 95%CI: 1.966-3.806; P = 0.000), 3-year OS (OR = 4.782; 95%CI: 3.634-6.292; P = 0.000), 5-year OS (OR = 5.191; 95%CI: 3.775-7.138; P = 0.000]. However, RUNX3 was not correlated with gender (OR = 1.409; 95%CI: 0.986-2.014; P = 0.060).CONCLUSION: RUNX3 expression correlates with tumor's differentiation, depth of invasion, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, TNM stage and OS of GC patients.
Phosphorylcholine (PC) is an epitope on oxidized low-density lipoprotein (oxLDL), apoptotic cells and several pathogens like Streptococcus pneumoniae. Immunoglobulin M against PC (IgM anti-PC) has the ability to inhibit uptake of oxLDL by macrophages and increase clearance of apoptotic cells. From our genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in four European-ancestry cohorts, six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 11q24.1 were discovered (in 3002 individuals) and replicated (in 646 individuals) to be associated with serum level of IgM anti-PC (the leading SNP rs35923643-G, combined β = 0.19, 95% confidence interval 0.13-0.24, P = 4.3 × 10-11). The haplotype tagged by rs35923643-G (or its proxy SNP rs735665-A) is also known as the top risk allele for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), and a main increasing allele for general IgM. By using summary GWAS results of IgM anti-PC and CLL in the polygenic risk score (PRS) analysis, PRS on the basis of IgM anti-PC risk alleles positively associated with CLL risk (explained 0.6% of CLL variance, P = 1.2 × 10-15). Functional prediction suggested that rs35923643-G might impede the binding of Runt-related transcription factor 3, a tumor suppressor playing a central role in the immune regulation of cancers. Contrary to the expectations from the shared genetics between IgM anti-PC and CLL, an inverse relationship at the phenotypic level was found in a nested case-control study (30 CLL cases with 90 age- and sex-matched controls), potentially reflecting reverse causation. The suggested function of the top variant as well as the phenotypic association between IgM anti-PC and CLL risk needs replication and motivates further studies.
Functional inactivation of human runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) through mutation or epigenetic silencing has been well-documented in many cancerous entities. In addition to gene mutation and promoter hypermethylation, cytoplasmic mislocalization has emerged as another major manifestation of RUNX3 dysfunction in malignancies including breast, colorectal and gastric cancers. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and different RUNX3 expression patterns would have different overall survival (OS), and the associations between different patterns of clinicopathological parameters and clinical outcome. Expressions of RUNX3 and Ki-67 were immunohistochemically detected in normal lung tissue (n=5) and surgically resected tissues from NSCLC patients (n=188). The optimal cutoff of RUNX3 was determined by X-tile software associated with their survival. Apoptotic index in cancerous tissue was evaluated using the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labelling method. The prognostic significance of different expression patterns of RUNX3 was determined by means of Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and log-rank tests. It was revealed that loss of RUNX3 expression in NSCLC was correlated with a low cancerous apoptotic index (P<0.001), shorter OS and worse prognosis (P=0.0142), while no statistical difference of apoptotic index (P=0.73) or survival (P=0.3781) was determined between patient subgroups with different localization of RUNX3 expression, which was quite different from the situation demonstrated in other malignancies. In conclusion, loss of expression rather than cytoplasmic mislocalization of RUNX3 predicted worse outcome in NSCLC, which was quite different from what manifested in other cancer types, and thus, the underlying mechanism may deserve further investigation.
Immunoglobulin G (IgG), a glycoprotein secreted by plasma B-cells, plays a major role in the human adaptive immune response and are associated with a wide range of diseases. Glycosylation of the Fc binding region of IgGs, responsible for the antibody's effector function, is essential for prompting a proper immune response. This study focuses on the general genetic impact on IgG glycosylation as well as corresponding subclass specificities. To identify genetic loci involved in IgG glycosylation, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) on liquid chromatography electrospray mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS)-measured IgG glycopeptides of 1,823 individuals in the Cooperative Health Research in the Augsburg Region (KORA F4) study cohort. In addition, we performed GWAS on subclass-specific ratios of IgG glycans to gain power in identifying genetic factors underlying single enzymatic steps in the glycosylation pathways. We replicated our findings in 1,836 individuals from the Leiden Longevity Study (LLS). We were able to show subclass-specific genetic influences on single IgG glycan structures. The replicated results indicate that, in addition to genes encoding for glycosyltransferases (i.e., ST6GAL1, B4GALT1, FUT8, and MGAT3), other genetic loci have strong influences on the IgG glycosylation patterns. A novel locus on chromosome 1, harboring RUNX3, which encodes for a transcription factor of the runt domain-containing family, is associated with decreased galactosylation. Interestingly, members of the RUNX family are cross-regulated, and RUNX3 is involved in both IgA class switching and B-cell maturation as well as T-cell differentiation and apoptosis. Besides the involvement of glycosyltransferases in IgG glycosylation, we suggest that, due to the impact of variants within RUNX3, potentially mechanisms involved in B-cell activation and T-cell differentiation during the immune response as well as cell migration and invasion involve IgG glycosylation.
Comment in    Nat Rev Cancer. 2018 May;18(5):373.    Nature. 2018 May;557(7706):500-501.
OBJECTIVES: To explore the functions of RUNX3 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with ankylosing spondylitis (AS).METHODS: Individual SNP associations were evaluated in 4230 UK cases. Their effects on transcription factor (TF) binding, transcription regulation, chromatin modifications, gene expression and gene interactions were tested by database interrogation, luciferase reporter assays, electrophoretic mobility gel shifts, chromatin immunoprecipitation and real-time PCR.RESULTS: We confirmed the independent association of AS with rs4265380, which was robust (P=4.7×10-6) to conditioning on another nearby AS-associated RUNX3 SNP (rs4648889). A RUNX3 haplotype incorporating both SNPs was strongly associated with AS (OR 6.2; 95% CI 3.1 to 13.2, P=1.4×10-8). In a large UK cohort, rs4265380 is associated with leucocyte counts (including monocytes). RUNX3 expression is lower in AS peripheral blood mononuclear cells than healthy controls (P<0.002), independent of rs4265380 genotype. Enhancer function for this RUNX3 region was suggested by increased luciferase activity (approximately tenfold; P=0.005) for reporter constructs containing rs4265380. In monocytes, there was differential allelic binding of nuclear protein extracts to a 50 bp DNA probe containing rs4265380 that was strongly augmented by lipopolysaccharide activation. TF binding also included the histone modifier p300. There was enrichment for histone modifications associated with active enhancer elements (H3K27Ac and H3K79Me2) that may be allele dependent. Hi-C database interrogation showed chromosome interactions of RUNX3 bait with the nearby RP4-799D16.1 lincRNA.CONCLUSIONS: The association of AS with this RUNX3 regulatory region involves at least two SNPs apparently operating in different cell types. Monocytes may be potential therapeutic targets in AS.
Erratum for    Ann Surg Treat Res. 2018 Jan;94(1):19-25.
DNA methylation may predispose to multiple sclerosis (MS), as aberrant methylation in the promoter regions across the genome seems to underlie several processes of MS. We have currently determined the methylation status of eight genes in relapsing-remitting MS patients. Methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA) was used to determine the status of 31 CpG islands, located across eight genes, in 33 healthy individuals and 66 MS patients (33 in relapse and 33 in remission). The methylation levels in the examined sites ranged from 0 to 31%. Methylation positivity for RUNX3 and CDKN2A differed significantly between MS patients and healthy controls. Maximum methylation in RUNX3, CDKN2A, SOCS1, and NEUROG1 genes was significantly different between patients and controls. Roc curves demonstrated that the appropriate cut-offs to distinguish patients from healthy controls were 2% for RUNX3 (OR 3.316, CI 1.207-9.107, p = 0.024) and 3% for CDKN2A (OR 3.077, CI 1.281-7.39, p = 0.018). No difference in methylation was observed between patients in relapse and patients in remission, in any of the genes examined. Methylation patterns of RUNX3 and CDKN2A may be able to distinguish between MS patients and healthy controls, but not between MS patients in relapse and in remission. Graphical Abstract Methylation patterns of RUNX3 and CDKN2A may be able to discriminate healthy individuals from MS patients.
The blood-tumor barrier (BTB) restricts the efficient delivery of anti-glioma drugs to cranial glioma tissues. Increased BTB permeability may allow greater delivery of the therapeutic agents. Increasing evidence has revealed that PIWI proteins and PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) play an important role in tumor progression. However, whether PIWI proteins and piRNAs regulate BTB permeability remains unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that the PIWIL1/piRNA-DQ593109 (piR-DQ593109) complex was the predominant regulator of BTB permeability. Briefly, PIWIL1 was upregulated in glioma endothelial cells (GECs). Furthermore, piR-DQ593109 was also overexpressed in GECs, as revealed via a piRNA microarray. Downregulation of PIWIL1 or piR-DQ593109 increased the permeability of the BTB. Moreover, PIWIL1 and piR-DQ593109, which formed a piRNA-induced silencing complex, degraded the long non-coding RNA maternally expressed 3 (MEG3) in a sequenced-dependent manner. Furthermore, restoring MEG3 released post-transcriptional inhibition of Runt related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) by sponging miR-330-5p. In addition, RUNX3 bounded to the promoter regions and reduced the promoter activities of ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-5, which significantly impaired the expression levels of ZO-1, occludin, and claudin-5. In conclusion, downregulating PIWIL1 and piR-DQ593109 increased BTB permeability through the MEG3/miR-330-5p/RUNX3 axis. These data may provide insight into glioma treatment.
Cytotoxic CD4 (CD4CTX) T cells are emerging as an important component of antiviral and antitumor immunity, but the molecular basis of their development remains poorly understood. In the context of human cytomegalovirus infection, a significant proportion of CD4 T cells displays cytotoxic functions. We observed that the transcriptional program of these cells was enriched in CD8 T cell lineage genes despite the absence of ThPOK downregulation. We further show that establishment of CD4CTX-specific transcriptional and epigenetic programs occurred in a stepwise fashion along the Th1-differentiation pathway. In vitro, prolonged activation of naive CD4 T cells in presence of Th1 polarizing cytokines led to the acquisition of perforin-dependent cytotoxic activity. This process was dependent on the Th1 transcription factor Runx3 and was limited by the sustained expression of ThPOK. This work elucidates the molecular program of human CD4CTX T cells and identifies potential targets for immunotherapy against viral infections and cancer.
Previous studies show that endoplasmic reticulum-associated aminopeptidase (ERAP1/ERAP2) and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene polymorphisms are associated with AS (ankylosing spondylitis) in European Caucasians. However, contradictory results were reported in different Asian populations. The purpose of this study was to determine whether eleven candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in ERAP1/ERAP2 and six in RUNX3 genes confer susceptibility to AS with or without acute anterior uveitis (AAU) [AS+ AAU+ or AS+ AAU- ] in Chinese Han. Therefore, a case-control association study was performed in 882 AS+ AAU- , 884 AS+ AAU+ and 1727 healthy controls. Genotyping was performed using the iPLEXGold genotyping assay. A meta-analysis was performed to assess the association of polymorphisms of ERAP1 with AS susceptibility in Asian populations. No association was found between SNPs of ERAP1/ERAP2/RUNX3 and susceptibility of AS with or without AAU. A case-control study between patients with human leucocyte antigen HLA-B27-positive and healthy controls also failed to demonstrate an association of the tested SNP with AS with or without AAU. Moreover, a meta-analysis showed that there was no association of rs30187, rs27037, rs27980, rs27434 and rs27582 in ERAP1 with AS in Chinese Han. Taken together, 17 SNPs in ERAP1/ERAP2 and RUNX3 genes did not confer disease susceptibility to AS in Chinese Han.
Co-occurrence of Flt3ITD and TET2 mutations provoke an animal model of AML by epigenetic repression of Wnt pathway antagonists, including RUNX3, and by hyperexpression of ID1, encoding Wnt agonist. These affect HOXA over-expression and treatment resistance. A comparable epigenetic phenotype was identified among adult AML patients needing novel intervention. We chose combinations of targeted agents acting on distinct effectors, at the levels of both signal transduction and chromatin remodeling, in relapsed/refractory AML's, including Flt3ITD+ve, described with a signature of repressed tumor suppressor genes, involving Wnt antagonist RUNX3, occurring along with ID1 and HOXA over-expressions. We tracked patient response to combination of Flt3/Raf inhibitor, Sorafenib, and Vorinostat, pan-histone deacetylase inhibitor, without or with added Bortezomib, in consecutive phase I trials. A striking association of rapid objective remissions (near-complete, complete responses) was noted to accompany induced early pharmacodynamic changes within patient blasts in situ, involving these effectors, significantly linking RUNX3/Wnt antagonist de-repression (80%) and ID1 downregulation (85%), to a response, also preceded by profound HOXA9 repression. Response occurred in context of concurrent TET2 mutation/hypomorphy and Flt3ITD+ve mutation (83% of complete responses). Addition of Bortezomib to the combination was vital to attainment of complete response in Flt3ITD+ve cases exhibiting such Wnt pathway dysregulation.
Yes-associated protein 1 (YAP) and transcriptional co-activator with PDZ-binding motif (TAZ) (YAP/TAZ) are transcriptional coactivators that regulate genes involved in proliferation and transformation by interacting with DNA-binding transcription factors. Remarkably, YAP/TAZ are essential for cancer initiation or growth of most solid tumors. Their activation induces cancer stem cell attributes, proliferation, and metastasis. The oncogenic activity of YAP/TAZ is inhibited by the Hippo cascade, an evolutionarily conserved pathway that is governed by two kinases, mammalian Ste20-like kinases 1/2 (MST1/2) and Large tumor suppressor kinase 1/2 (LATS1/2), corresponding to Drosophila's Hippo (Hpo) and Warts (Wts), respectively. One of the most influential aspects of YAP/TAZ biology is that these factors are transducers of cell structural features, including polarity, shape, and cytoskeletal organization. In turn, these features are intimately related to the cell's ability to attach to other cells and to the surrounding extracellular matrix (ECM), and are also influenced by the cell's microenvironment. Thus, YAP/TAZ respond to changes that occur at the level of whole tissues. Notably, small GTPases act as master organizers of the actin cytoskeleton. Recent studies provided convincing genetic evidence that small GTPase signaling pathways activate YAP/TAZ, while the Hippo pathway inhibits them. Biochemical studies showed that small GTPases facilitate the YAP-Tea domain transcription factor (TEAD) interaction by inhibiting YAP phosphorylation in response to serum stimulation, while the Hippo pathway facilitates the YAP-RUNX3 interaction by increasing YAP phosphorylation. Therefore, small GTPase pathways activate YAP/TAZ by switching its DNA-binding transcription factors. In this review, we summarize the relationship between the Hippo pathway and small GTPase pathways in the regulation of YAP/TAZ.
Human Langerhans cells (LC) can be generated ex vivo from hematopoietic precursor cells in response to cytokines and cell-membrane associated ligands. These in vitro differentiation models provided mechanistic insights into the molecular and cellular pathways underlying the development of this unique, epithelia-associated dendritic cell subset. Notably, the human epidermal microenvironment is fully sufficient to induce LC differentiation from hematopoietic progenitors. Hence, dissecting the molecular characteristics of the human epithelial/epidermal LC niche, and testing defined ligands for their capacity to induce LC differentiation, led to a refined molecular model of LC lineage commitment. During epidermal ontogeny, spatially and temporally regulated availability of TGF-β family members cooperate with other keratinocyte-derived signals, such as E-cadherin and Notch ligands, for instructing LC differentiation. In this review, we discuss the signals known to instruct human hematopoietic progenitor cells and myelomonocytic cells to undergo LC lineage commitment. Additionally, the current methods for generation of large numbers of human LC-like cells ex vivo in defined serum-free media are discussed.
A number of genes have been therapeutically targeted to relieve cancer, but cancer relapse is still a growing issue. The concept that the surrounding tumor environment is critical for the progression of cancer may foster an answer to the issue of cancer malignancy. Runt domain transcription factors (RUNX1, 2, and 3) are evolutionarily conserved and have been intensively studied for their roles in normal development and pathological conditions. During tumor growth, a hypoxic microenvironment and infiltration of the tumor by immune cells are common phenomena. In this review, we briefly introduce the consequences of hypoxia and immune cell infiltration into the tumor microenvironment with a focus on RUNX3 as a critical regulator. Furthermore, based on our current knowledge of the functional role of RUNX3 in hypoxia and immune cell maintenance, a probable therapeutic intervention is suggested for the effective management of tumor growth and malignancy. [BMB Reports 2018; 51(4): 174-181].
BACKGROUND: Long non-coding RNAs (LncRNAs) exert their functions mainly by binding to their corresponding proteins. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) is an important transcription factor that functions as a tumor suppressor in gastric cancer. Whether there is an interplay between LncRNAs and Runx3 remains unclear.METHODS: RPISeq was applied to screen the LncRNAs that potentially bind to Runx3. The interaction between LncRNA HOX antisense intergenic RNA (HOTAIR) and Runx3 was validated by RNA Immunoprecipitation and RNA pull-down assays. The role of Mex3b in the ubiquitination of Runx3 induced by HOTAIR was assessed by immunoprecipitation. Pearson's correlation between HOTAIR mRNA expression and Runx3 protein expression was analyzed. Cell migration and invasion were explored by transwell assays.RESULTS: We found that HOTAIR was bound to Runx3 protein and identified the fragment of HOTAIR spanning 1951-2100 bp as the specific binding site. In addition, mex-3 RNA binding family member B (Mex3b) was an E3 ligase involved in HOTAIR-induced ubiquitous degradation of Runx3. Silencing the expression of HOTAIR or Mex3b attenuated the degradation of Runx3. In human gastric cancer tissues, HOTAIR was negatively associated with the expression level of Runx3 protein (Pearson coefficient - 0.501, p = 0.025). Inhibition of HOTAIR significantly suppressed gastric cancer cell migration and invasion through upregulating claudin1, which could be reversed by co-deficiency of Runx3.CONCLUSIONS: These results uncovered the novel interaction between HOTAIR and Runx3, and provided potential therapeutic targets on the metastasis of gastric cancer.
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is the most common primary liver cancer in Northeastern Thailand where liver fluke infection is highly endemic. Although aberrant DNA methylation in CCA has been reported by several investigators, little is known regarding the associations between them. In the present study, the results obtained from our previously published methylation array were analyzed and 10 candidate genes involved in DNA repair [protein phosphatase 4 catalytic subunit (PPP4C)], apoptosis [runt related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4), ubiquitin C‑terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) and tumor protein p53 inducible protein 3 (TP53I3)], cell proliferation [cyclin D2 (CCND2) and Ras association domain family member 1 (RASSF1)], drug metabolism [aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family member A3 (ALDH1A3) and solute carrier family 29 member 1 (SLC29A1)] and angiogenesis [human immunodeficiency virus‑1 tat interactive protein 2 (HTATIP2)] were selected for quantification of their methylation levels in 54 CCA and 19 adjacent normal tissues using methylation‑sensitive high‑resolution melting. The associations between the methylation status of the individual genes and clinical parameters were statistically analyzed. High methylation levels were observed in UCHL1, IRF4, CCND2, HTATIP2 and TP53I3. The median methylation level of UCHL1 was 57.3% (range, 3.15 to 88.7%) and HTATIP2 was 13.6% (range, 7.5 to 36.7%). By contrast, low methylation of HTATIP2 and UCHL1 was identified in adjacent normal tissues. The methylation status of HTATIP2 and UCHL1 was associated with patients' overall survival. CCA patients with high methylation of HTATIP2 and low methylation of UCHL1 exhibited longer overall survival. In addition, multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that UCHL1 methylation was an independent factor for CCA with hazard ratio of 1.81 (95% confidence interval, 1.01‑3.25) in high methylation group. The combination of HTATIP2 and UCHL1 methylation status strongly supported their potential predictive biomarker in which patients with CCA who had high methylation of HTATIP2 and low methylation of UCHL1 showed longer overall survival than those with low HTATIP2 methylation and high UCHL1 methylation. In conclusion, the present study revealed the value of aberrant DNA methylation of HTATIP2 and UCHL1, which may serve as a potential predictive biomarker for CCA.
Runx2 is a transcription factor that is essential for osteoblast differentiation and chondrocyte maturation. Ihh, expressed in prehypertrophic and hypertrophic chondrocytes, is required for the specification of Runx2+ osteoprogenitors in endochondral bone development. Runx2 induces Sp7, an essential transcription factor for osteoblast differentiation. Canonical Wnt signaling is also required for osteoblast differentiation. Runx2+ osteoprogenitors retain the capacity to differentiate into chondrocytes, and Sp7 and canonical Wnt signaling direct cells to osteoblasts, thereby inhibiting chondrocyte differentiation. The function of Runx2 after the commitment to osteoblasts remains controversial. Runx3 has a redundant function with Runx2 in chondrocyte maturation. Runx2 regulates the expression of Ihh, Col10a1, Spp1, Ibsp, Mmp13, and Vegfa in the respective layers in growth plates. Runx2 enhances chondrocyte proliferation through the induction of Ihh. Ihh induces Pthlh, which inhibits Runx2 and chondrocyte maturation, forming a negative feedback loop for chondrocyte maturation. Runx2 is one of the genes responsible for the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA) because RUNX2 is up-regulated in chondrocytes in OA cartilage and a germline haplodeficiency or deletion of Runx2 in articular chondrocytes decelerates OA progression. Runx2 plays an important role in the bone metastasis of breast and prostate cancers by up-regulating Spp1, Ibsp, Mmp9, Mmp13, Vegfa, Tnfsf11, and Ihh expression and down-regulating Tnfrsf11b expression. Cbfb forms a heterodimer with Runx2 and is required for the efficient DNA binding of Runx2. Cbfb stabilizes Runx proteins at different levels among Runx family proteins by inhibiting their ubiquitination-mediated degradation. Cbfb plays more important roles in endochondral ossification than in intramembranous ossification.
DOI: 10.18632/oncoscience.382PMCID: PMC5769972PMID: 29344546
(1) Background: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the most lethal cancer of the female reproductive system. In an earlier study, we identified multiple genes as hypermethylated in tumors of patients with poor prognosis. The most promising combination of markers to predict a patient's outcome was CaMKIINα and RUNX3. Aim of this study was to functionally validate the importance of both genes. (2) Methods: IC50 measurements, cell cycle distribution-, proliferation, and migration experiments were conducted after transgene overexpression in two EOC cell lines. (3) Results: We showed that CaMKIINα has tumor suppressive functions in vitro and reduces proliferation, migration, and colony formation. However, it had no effect on the reversion of the resistance to cisplatin. RUNX3 exhibited dualistic functions related to cisplatin sensitivity and migration capacity, depending on the respective transcript variant (TV). A2780 cells expressing RUNX3 TV2-the promoter of which harbors a CpG (5'-C-phosphate-G-3') island and is potentially inactivated by hypermethylation-exhibited increased cisplatin sensitivity and reduced migration properties. However, RUNX3 TV1, not affected by CpG island methylation could be characterized as mediating resistance and enhancing migration in A2780. The higher resistance of RUNX3 TV1 transfected cells correlates with a reduction of cell proliferation. Moreover, RUNX3 TV1 expressing cells exhibit a reduced cell cycle arrest at the gap-2 or mitosis phase (G2/M) under cisplatin treatment comparable to resistant A2780 subcultures. (4) Conclusion: It appears that CaMKIINα and RUNX3 TV2 can reduce the malignant potential of EOC cells.
Accumulating data demonstrates that the network dysregulation of microRNA-medicated target genes is involved in glioma. We have previously found miR-19a/b overexpression in glioma cell lines and specimens with various tumour grades. However, there was no report on the function and regulatory mechanism of miR-19a/b in glioma. In this study, based on our previous research data, we first determine the inverse relationship between miR-19 (miR-19a and miR-19b) and RUNX3 which is also identified the reduced expression in tumour tissues by real-time PCR and IHC. Luciferase reporter assay and western blot analysis revealed that RUNX3 was a direct target of miR-19. Down-regulation of miR-19 dramatically inhibited proliferation, invasion and induced the cell cycle G1 arrest and apoptosis, at least partly via the up-regulation of RUNX3. Furthermore, Mechanistic investigation indicated that knockdown of miR-19 repressed the β-catenin/TCF4 transcription activity. In conclusion, our study validates a pathogenetic role of miR-19 in glioma and establishes a potentially regulatory and signaling involving miR-19 /RUNX3/β-catenin, also suggesting miR-19 may be a candidate therapeutic target in glioma.
Erratum in    Ann Surg Treat Res. 2018 Mar;94(3):166.
BACKGROUND: Hypermethylation is observed in the promoter regions of suppressor genes in the tumor cancer cells. Reactivation of these genes by demethylation of their promoters is a prospective strategy of the anticancer therapy. Previous experiments have shown that symmetric dimeric bisbenzimidazoles DBP(n) are able to block DNA methyltransferase activities. It was also found that DBP(n) produces a moderate effect on the activation of total gene expression in HeLa-TI population containing epigenetically repressed avian sarcoma genome.PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: It is shown that DBP(n) are able to penetrate the cellular membranes and accumulate in breast carcinoma cell MCF-7, mainly in the mitochondria and in the nucleus, excluding the nucleolus. The DBP(n) are non-toxic to the cells and have a weak overall demethylation effect on genomic DNA. DBP(n) demethylate the promoter regions of the tumor suppressor genes PTEN and RARB. DBP(n) promotes expression of the genes RARB, PTEN, CDKN2A, RUNX3, Apaf-1 and APC "silent" in the MCF-7 because of the hypermethylation of their promoter regions. Simultaneously with the demethylation of the DNA in the nucleus a significant increase in the methylation level of rRNA genes in the nucleolus was detected. Increased rDNA methylation correlated with a reduction of the rRNA amount in the cells by 20-30%. It is assumed that during DNA methyltransferase activity inhibition by the DBP(n) in the nucleus, the enzyme is sequestered in the nucleolus and provides additional methylation of the rDNA that are not shielded by DBP(n).CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: It is concluded that DBP (n) are able to accumulate in the nucleus (excluding the nucleolus area) and in the mitochondria of cancer cells, reducing mitochondrial potential. The DBP (n) induce the demethylation of a cancer cell's genome, including the demethylation of the promoters of tumor suppressor genes. DBP (n) significantly increase the methylation of ribosomal RNA genes in the nucleoli. Therefore the further study of these compounds is needed; it could lead to the creation of new anticancer agents.
This corrects the article DOI: 10.1038/nature24993.
Neural EGFL like 1 (Nell-1) is essential for chondrogenic differentiation, maturation, and regeneration. Our previous studies have demonstrated that Nell-1's pro-chondrogenic activities are predominantly reliant upon runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3)-mediated Indian hedgehog (Ihh) signaling. Here, we identify the nuclear factor of activated T-cells 1 (Nfatc1) as the key transcriptional factor mediating the Nell-1 → Runx3 signal transduction in chondrocytes. Using chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, we were able to determine that Nfatc1 binds to the -833--810 region of the Runx3-promoter in response to Nell-1 treatment. By revealing the Nell-1 → Nfatc1 → Runx3 → Ihh cascade, we demonstrate the involvement of Nfatc1, a nuclear factor of activated T-cells, in chondrogenesis, while providing innovative insights into developing a novel therapeutic strategy for cartilage regeneration and other chondrogenesis-related conditions.
Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) act as critical regulators of many malignant tumors cellular processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, invasion and metastasis. However, the functions and molecular mechanisms of lncRNA HOXD-AS1 in melanoma remain little known. In the present study, we observed that lncRNA HOXD-AS1 expression was remarkably higher in melanoma tissues compared to skin tissues with melanocytic nevus. Increased expression of lncRNA HOXD-AS1 correlated with poor survival of melanoma patients. Furthermore, functional experiments demonstrated that upregulated lncRNA HOXD-AS1 expression dramatically promoted cell proliferation and invasion of melanoma, while downregulation of lncRNA HOXD-AS1 showed a tumor inhibiting effects on melanoma cells in vitro. In vivo, data results showed that lncRNA HOXD-AS1 knockdown notably reduced tumor growth. Additionally, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays revealed that lncRNA HOXD-AS1 could epigenetically suppress the expression of RUNX3 via binding to EZH2. Downregulation of RUNX3 attenuated the proliferation and invasion-inhibiting effects induced by lncRNA HOXD-AS1 knockdown in melanoma cells. Therefore, these results indicated that HOXD-AS1 may serve as a potential therapeutic target of melanoma.
Tri-methylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3) is a repressive epigenetic modification catalyzed by polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) that is required for proper cell fate determination as well as cellular function. Numerous studies have been performed to elucidate the role of PRC2 in T-cell differentiation and function; however, its role in the regulation of T-helper (Th) subset differentiation and identity has not been fully explored. Here, we report that Eed, an essential subunit of PRC2, is crucial to maintain the identity of CD4+ T cells under TGFβ-induced regulatory T cell (Treg)-polarizing conditions. Mouse CD4+ T cells lacking Eed exhibited unstable CD4 expression upon TCR stimulation in vitro. Helper lineage instability was further augmented by Treg-polarizing conditions, leading to the immense up-regulation of CD8α as well as other molecules, resembling CD4+ CD8αα+ intraepithelial lymphocyte (DP-IEL) differentiation. Genetic studies suggested that the altered balance between transcription factors T-bet, Runx3, and Th-POK underlies the induction of the DP-IEL-like phenotype in Eed-deficient CD4+ cells. Furthermore, comparison to Th1- and Th17-polarizing conditions indicated that cooperation between Smad3 and the T-bet-Runx3 axis facilitated by the loss of H3K27me3 is crucial for phenotype induction. Collectively, our results provide insight into the molecular mechanism that maintains and regulates the proper cellular response upon TGFβ signaling in CD4+ T cells.
Transcription factors play important roles in the regulation of cartilage development by controlling the expression of chondrogenic genes. Genetic studies have revealed that Sox9/Sox5/Sox6, Runx2/Runx3 and Osterix in particular are essential for the sequential steps of cartilage development. Importantly, these transcription factors form network systems that are also required for appropriate cartilage development. Molecular cloning approaches have largely contributed to the identification of several transcriptional partners for Sox9 and Runx2 during cartilage development. Although the importance of a negative-feedback loop between Indian hedgehog (Ihh) and parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP) in chondrocyte hypertrophy has been well established, recent studies indicate that several transcription factors interact with the Ihh-PTHrP loop and demonstrated that Ihh has multiple functions in the regulation of cartilage development. The most common cartilage disorder, osteoarthritis, has been reported to result from the pathological action of several transcription factors, including Runx2, C/EBPβ and HIF-2α. On the other hand, NFAT family members appear to play roles in the protection of cartilage from osteoarthritis. It is also becoming important to understand the homeostasis and regulation of articular chondrocytes, because they have different cellular and molecular features from chondrocytes of the growth plate. This review summarizes the regulation and roles of transcriptional network systems in cartilage development and their pathological roles in osteoarthritis.
Progression of solid cancers, colorectal carcinomas among them, from their primaries to metastatic lesions traditionally is thought to proceed by a stepwise acquisition of and selection for genomic aberrations. To test if patterns of genomic aberrations would be consistent with this model, we studied 10 colorectal carcinoma primary-metastasis pairs, 9 with 1 liver metastasis each and 1 with 2 metastases. Next-generation targeted sequencing (50-gene panel) with samples obtained from different regions of the primaries and their metastases demonstrated 1-11 gene mutations per lesion. But only in 2 tumors were there seen mutations in all samples from the metastasis and not any of the primaries (BRAFD594N and SMARCB1R377C mutation, respectively). However, allelotyping the multiregional samples with polymorphous microsatellite markers (17p13.1, D9S942, D9S1748, D5S346, D5S1385) and DNA methylation studies with a marker panel (MLH1, CDNK2A, NEUROG1, CRABP1, CACNA1G, IGF2, RUNX3, SOCS1) showed remarkably "insular" genomic aberrations in all cases for at least some of the analyses. The marked preponderance of mutations shared by the primaries and their metastases throughout the lesions over mutations private to metastases suggests that, at least in many cases, colorectal carcinomas might be endowed with a mutational load sufficient for fully fledged metastases even at a very early stage ("born bad"). But the very focal allelic imbalances and methylations observed here, hypothetically, could play a role in clinically metastasizing disease, a process of years rather than months and very much a matter of tumor-host interactions when tumor cells adapt to the host microenvironment.
Comment on    Nature. 2017 Dec 14;552(7684):253-257.
Agonists to the TNF/TNFR costimulatory receptors CD134 (OX40) and CD137 (4-1BB) elicit antitumor immunity. Dual costimulation with anti-CD134 plus anti-CD137 is particularly potent because it programs cytotoxic potential in CD8+ and CD4+ T cells. Cytotoxicity in dual-costimulated CD4 T cells depends on the T-box transcription factor eomesodermin (Eomes), which we report is induced via a mechanism that does not rely on IL-2, in contrast to CD8+ CTL, but rather depends on the CD8 T cell lineage commitment transcription factor Runx3, which supports Eomes expression in mature CD8+ CTLs. Further, Eomes and Runx3 were indispensable for dual-costimulated CD4 T cells to mediate antitumor activity in an aggressive melanoma model. Runx3 is also known to be expressed in standard CD4 Th1 cells where it fosters IFN-γ expression; however, the CD4 T cell lineage commitment factor ThPOK represses transcription of Eomes and other CD8 lineage genes, such as Cd8a Hence, CD4 T cells can differentiate into Eomes+ cytotoxic CD4+CD8+ double-positive T cells by terminating ThPOK expression. In contrast, dual-costimulated CD4 T cells express Eomes, despite the continued expression of ThPOK and the absence of CD8α, indicating that Eomes is selectively released from ThPOK repression. Finally, although Eomes was induced by CD137 agonist, but not CD134 agonist, administered individually, CD137 agonist failed to induce CD134-/- CD4 T cells to express Eomes or Runx3, indicating that both costimulatory pathways are required for cytotoxic Th1 programming, even when only CD137 is intentionally engaged with a therapeutic agonist.
Besides being a classical tumor suppressor, runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is now widely recognized for its oncogenic role in the development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Here we report that this bidirectional function of RUNX1 possibly arises from the total level of RUNX family expressions. Indeed, analysis of clinical data revealed that intermediate-level gene expression of RUNX1 marked the poorest-prognostic cohort in relation to AML patients with high- or low-level RUNX1 expressions. Through a series of RUNX1 knockdown experiments with various RUNX1 attenuation potentials, we found that moderate attenuation of RUNX1 contributed to the enhanced propagation of AML cells through accelerated cell-cycle progression, whereas profound RUNX1 depletion led to cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis. In these RUNX1-silenced tumors, amounts of compensative upregulation of RUNX2 and RUNX3 expressions were roughly equivalent and created an absolute elevation of total RUNX (RUNX1 + RUNX2 + RUNX3) expression levels in RUNX1 moderately attenuated AML cells. This elevation resulted in enhanced transactivation of glutathione S-transferase α 2 (GSTA2) expression, a vital enzyme handling the catabolization of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) as well as advancing the cell-cycle progressions, and thus ultimately led to the acquisition of proliferative advantage in RUNX1 moderately attenuated AML cells. Besides, treatment with ethacrynic acid, which is known for its GSTA inhibiting property, actually prolonged the survival of AML mice in vivo. Collectively, our findings indicate that moderately attenuated RUNX1 expressions paradoxically enhance leukemogenesis in AML cells through intracellular environmental change via GSTA2, which could be a novel therapeutic target in antileukemia strategy.
Breast cancer is one of complex diseases that are influenced by environment. Various genetic and epigenetic alterations are provoking causes of breast carcinogenesis. Dynamic epigenetic regulation including DNA methylation and histone modification induces dysregulation of genes related to proliferation, apoptosis, and metastasis in breast cancer. DNA methylation is strongly associated with the repression of transcription through adding to the methyl group by DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), and tumor suppressor genes such as CCND2 and RUNX3 have been investigated to undergo hypermethylation at promoter region in breast cancer. In addition, histone deacetylases (HDACs) contribute to transcriptional repression by removing acetyl group at lysine residues leading to tumorigenesis. Since epigenetic changes are reversible, therapeutic approaches have been applied with epigenetic modification drugs such as DNMT inhibitors and HDAC inhibitors. In this chapter, we will summarize the feature of epigenetic markers in breast cancer cells and the effect of single or combination of epigenetic reagents for breast cancer therapy.
Knowledge concerning expression and function of Suppression of Tumorigenicity 2 (ST2) in chondrocytes is at present, limited. Analysis of murine growth plates and ATDC5 chondrocytes indicated peak expression of the ST2 transmembrane receptor (ST2L) and soluble (sST2) isoforms during the hypertrophic differentiation concomitant with the expression of the hypertrophic markers Collagen X (Col X), Runx2 and MMP-13. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments in ATDC5 and primary human growth plate chondrocytes (PHCs), confirmed regulation of ST2 by the key transcription factor Runx2, indicating ST2 to be a novel Runx2 target. ST2 knock-out mice (ST2-/-) exhibited noticeable hypertrophic zone (HZ) reduction in murine growth plates, accompanied by lower expression of Col X and Osteocalcin (OSC) compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Likewise, ST2 knockdown resulted in decreased Col X expression and downregulation of OSC and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) in ATDC5 cells. The ST2 suppression was also associated with upregulation of the proliferative stage markers Sox9 and Collagen II (Col II), indicating ST2 to be a new regulator of ATDC5 chondrocyte differentiation. Runx3 was, furthermore, identified as a novel Runx2 target in chondrocytes. This study suggests that Runx2 mediates ST2 and Runx3 induction to cooperatively regulate hypertrophic differentiation of ATDC5 chondrocytes.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a tumor suppressor in many human solid tumors. In this study, renal cell carcinoma (RCC) microarray analysis showed that the level of RUNX3 expression was lower in RCC tissue than in adjacent normal renal tissues, and was correlated with depth of invasion (pT stage) (P<0.001) and Tumor Node Metastasis (TNM) stage (P<0.001). RUNX3 expression was negatively correlated with poor 5-year overall and disease-free patient survival. RUNX3 suppressed RCC metastasis and invasion and increased levels of E-cadherin, an important marker of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, in vitro and in vivo. RUNX3 also inhibited microRNA-6780a-5p, which directly targeted the E-cadherin 3'untranslated region and decreased its expression. We confirmed that miR-6780a-5p mimics abrogated RUNX3-mediated E-cadherin upregulation and RCC metastasis/invasion inhibition. Thus, RUNX3 targeted the miR-6780a-5p/E-cadherin/EMT signaling axis to suppress renal carcinoma cell migration and invasion. This pathway illustrates a new RUNX3 function and provides potential targets for the treatment of RUNX3 mutant and loss-of-function RCC tumors. RUNX3 may also act as an effective prognostic indicator in RCC.
Natural killer (NK) cells are innate lymphocytes that have features of adaptive immunity such as clonal expansion and generation of long-lived memory. Interleukin-12 (IL-12) signaling through its downstream transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4) is required for the generation of memory NK cells after expansion. We identify gene loci that are highly enriched for STAT4 binding using chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing for STAT4 and the permissive histone mark H3K4me3 in activated NK cells. We found that promoter regions of Runx1 and Runx3 are targets of STAT4 and that STAT4 binding during NK cell activation induces epigenetic modifications of Runx gene loci resulting in increased expression. Furthermore, specific ablation of Runx1, Runx3, or their binding partner Cbfb in NK cells resulted in defective clonal expansion and memory formation during viral infection, with evidence for Runx1-mediated control of a cell cycle program. Thus, our study reveals a mechanism whereby STAT4-mediated epigenetic control of individual Runx transcription factors promotes the adaptive behavior of antiviral NK cells.
BACKGROUND: DNA methylation is a fundamental epigenetic modification that is involved in many biological systems such as differentiation and disease. We and others recently showed that some transcription factors (TFs) are involved in the site-specific determination of DNA demethylation in a binding site-directed manner, although the reports of such TFs are limited.RESULTS: Here, we develop a screening system to identify TFs that induce binding site-directed DNA methylation changes. The system involves the ectopic expression of target TFs in model cells followed by DNA methylome analysis and overrepresentation analysis of the corresponding TF binding motif at differentially methylated regions. It successfully identified binding site-directed demethylation of SPI1, which is known to promote DNA demethylation in a binding site-directed manner. We extended our screening system to 15 master TFs involved in cellular differentiation and identified eight novel binding site-directed DNA demethylation-inducing TFs (RUNX3, GATA2, CEBPB, MAFB, NR4A2, MYOD1, CEBPA, and TBX5). Gene ontology and tissue enrichment analysis revealed that these TFs demethylate genomic regions associated with corresponding biological roles. We also describe the characteristics of binding site-directed DNA demethylation induced by these TFs, including the targeting of highly methylated CpGs, local DNA demethylation, and the overlap of demethylated regions between TFs of the same family.CONCLUSIONS: Our results show the usefulness of the developed screening system for the identification of TFs that induce DNA demethylation in a site-directed manner.
Erratum in    Nature. 2018 Jan 10;:
The Runt related transcription factors (RUNX) are recognized as key players in suppressing or promoting tumor growth. RUNX3, a member of this family, is known as a tumor suppressor in many types of cancers, although such a paradigm was challenged by some researchers. The TGF-β pathway governs major upstream signals to activate RUNX3. RUNX3 protein consists of several regions and domains. The Runt domain is a conserved DNA binding domain and is considered as the main part of RUNX proteins. Herein, we compared the effects of Runt domains and full-Runx3 in cell viability by designing two constructs of Runx3, including N-terminal region and Runt domain. We investigated the effect of full-Runx3, N-t, and RD on growth inhibition in AGS, MCF-7, A549, and HEK293 cell lines which are different in TGF-β sensitivity, in the absence and presence of TGF-β. The full length RUNX3 did not notably inhibit growth of these cell lines while, the N-t and RD truncates showed different trends in these cell lines. Cell proliferation in the TGF-β impaired context cell lines (AGS and MCF-7) significantly decrease while in the A549 significantly increase. On the other hand, transfection of N-t and RD did not considerably affect the cell proliferation in the HEK293.Our results show that full-lenght RUNX3 did not affect the cell viability. Conversely, the N-t and RD constructs significantly changed cell proliferation. Therefore, therapeutic potentials for these truncated proteins are suggested in tumors with RUNX proteins dysfunction, even in the TGF-β impair context.
CD8+ T cells are preprogrammed for cytotoxic differentiation in the thymus as they acquire expression of the transcription factor Runx3. However, a subset of effector CD8+ T cells (Tc17) produce IL-17 and fail to express cytotoxic genes. Here, we show that the transcription factors directing IL-17 production, STAT3 and RORγt, inhibit cytotoxicity despite persistent Runx3 expression. Cytotoxic gene repression did not require the transcription factor Thpok, which in CD4+ T cells restrains Runx3 functions and cytotoxicity; and STAT3 restrained cytotoxic gene expression in CD8+ T cells responding to viral infection in vivo. STAT3-induced RORγt represses cytotoxic genes by inhibiting the functions but not the expression of the "cytotoxic" transcription factors T-bet and Eomesodermin. Thus, the transcriptional circuitry directing IL-17 expression inhibits cytotoxic functions. However, by allowing expression of activators of the cytotoxic program, this inhibitory mechanism contributes to the instability of IL-17-producing T cells.
Among the particular immunomodulation properties of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), one relies on their capacity to regulatory T cell (Treg) induction from effector T cells. Stable expression of Foxp3 has a dominant role in suppressive phenotype and stability of induced regulatory T cells (iTregs). How MSCs induce stable Foxp3 expression in iTregs remains unknown. We previously showed MSCs could enhance demethylation of Treg-specific demethylated region (TSDR) in iTregs in cell-cell contact manner (unpublished data). Here, we evaluated the possible effect of MSCs on the mRNA expression of Runx complex genes (Runx1, Runx3, and CBFB) that perch on TSDR in iTregs and play the main role in suppressive properties of Tregs, a regulatory pathway that has not yet been explored by MSCs. Also, we investigated the mRNA expression of MBD2 that promotes TSDR demethylation in Tregs. We first showed that in vitro MSC-iTreg induction was associated with strong mRNA modifications of genes involved in Runx complex. We next injected high doses of MSCs in a murine model of C57BL/6 into Balb/C allogeneic skin transplantation to prolong allograft survival. When splenocytes of grafted mice were analyzed, we realized that the Foxp3 expression was increased at day 5 and 10 post-graft merely in MSC-treated mice. Furthermore, Foxp3 mRNA expression was associated with modified Runx complex mRNA expression comparable to what was shown in in vitro studies. Hence, our data identify a possible mechanism in which MSCs convert conventional T cells to iTreg through strong modifications of mRNA of genes that are involved in Runx complex of Foxp3.
The pro-chondrogenic function of runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) was previously considered to be dependent on direct binding with the promoter of Indian hedgehog (Ihh)-the major regulator of chondrocyte differentiation, proliferation, and maturation. The authors' previous studies identified neural EGFL like 1 (Nell-1) as a Runx2-responsive growth factor for chondrogenic differentiation and maturation. In this study, it was further revealed that the pro-chondrogenic activities of Nell-1 also rely on Ihh signaling, by showing: i) Nell-1 significantly elevated Ihh signal transduction; ii) Nell-1 deficiency markedly reduced Ihh activation in chondrocytes; and iii) Nell-1-stimulated chondrogenesis was significantly reduced by the specific hedgehog inhibitor cyclopamine. Importantly, the authors demonstrated that Nell-1-responsive Ihh signaling and chondrogenic differentiation extended to Runx2-/- models in vitro and in vivo. In Runx2-/- chondrocytes, Nell-1 stimulated the expression and signal transduction of Runx3, another transcription factor required for complete chondrogenic differentiation and maturation. Furthermore, knocking down Runx3 in Runx2-/- chondrocytes abolished Nell-1's stimulation of Ihh-associated molecule expression, which validates Runx3 as a major mediator of Nell-1-stimulated Ihh activation. For the first time, the Runx2→Nell-1→Runx3→Ihh signaling cascade during chondrogenic differentiation and maturation has been identified as an alternative, but critical, pathway for Runx2 to function as a pro-chondrogenic molecule via Nell-1.
The expression of CD45RA is generally associated with naive T cells. However, a subset of effector memory T cells re-expresses CD45RA (termed TEMRA) after antigenic stimulation with unknown molecular characteristics and functions. CD4 TEMRA cells have been implicated in protective immunity against pathogens such as dengue virus (DENV). Here we show that not only the frequency but also the phenotype of CD4 TEMRA cells are heterogeneous between individuals. These cells can be subdivided into two major subsets based on the expression of the adhesion G protein-coupled receptor GPR56, and GPR56+ TEMRA cells display a transcriptional and proteomic program with cytotoxic features that is distinct from effector memory T cells. Moreover, GPR56+ TEMRA cells have higher levels of clonal expansion and contain the majority of virus-specific TEMRA cells. Overall, this study reveals the heterogeneity of CD4 TEMRA cells and provides insights into T-cell responses against DENV and other viral pathogens.
PURPOSE: To examine DNA methylation as a mechanism linking diet, physical activity, weight status, and breast cancer risk.METHODS: Insufficiently active women of varying weight status, without a history of cancer, completed a maximal exercise test, clinical measurement of height and weight, and a dietary intake measure. They also provided blood samples, which were analyzed to ascertain average methylation of candidate genes related to breast cancer (BRCA1, RUNX3, GALNT9, and PAX6) and inflammation (TLR4 and TLR6).RESULTS: Elevated weight status (r = - .18, p < .05) and poorer aerobic fitness (r = .24, p < .01) were each associated with decreased methylation of inflammation genes. Methylation of inflammation genes statistically mediated the relationship between weight status and cancer gene methylation (standardized indirect effect = .12, p < .05) as well as between cardiorespiratory fitness and cancer gene methylation (standardized indirect effect = - .172, p < .01). However, recent dietary behavior was not associated with methylation of either inflammation or cancer genes.CONCLUSIONS: Both weight status and cardiovascular fitness are associated with methylation of genes associated with both inflammation and cancer. Methylation of inflammatory genes might serve as a mechanistic link between lifestyle factors and methylation changes in genes that increase risk for breast cancer.
Linkage studies have revealed a linkage of mild malaria to chromosome 6p21 that contains the NCR3 gene encoding a natural killer cell receptor, whereas NCR3-412G>C (rs2736191) located in its promoter region was found to be associated with malaria in Burkina Faso. Here we confirmed the association of rs2736191 with mild malaria in a Congolese cohort and investigated its potential cis-regulatory effect. Luciferase assay results indicated that rs2736191-G allele had a significantly increased promoter activity compared to rs2736191-C allele. Furthermore, EMSAs demonstrated an altered binding of two nuclear protein complexes to the rs2736191-C allele in comparison to rs2736191-G allele. Finally, after in silico identification of transcription factor candidates, pull-down western blot experiments confirmed that both STAT4 and RUNX3 bind the region encompassing rs2736191 with a higher affinity for the G allele. To our knowledge, this is the first report that explored the functional role of rs2736191. These results support the hypothesis that genetic variation within natural killer cell receptors alters malaria resistance in humans.
Jun activation domain-binding protein 1 (JAB1) has been shown to have multiple roles in tumorigenesis, including the degradation of tumor suppressor proteins such as p53, Smad7, Runx3 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1, and the activation of oncogenic transcription factors, such as c-Jun and hypoxia-inducible factor-1α. In addition, our previous study revealed that JAB1 positively regulates signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) DNA-binding activity in human colon cancer cells. In turn, the oncogenic transcription factor STAT3 positively regulates JAB1 expression, indicative of a positive feedback loop. Furthermore, high JAB1 expression is associated with a poor prognosis in numerous malignant carcinomas. However, the association between JAB1 expression and prognosis in colorectal cancer remains unclear. The aim of the present study was to elucidate the association between JAB1 and STAT3 expression and recurrence in colorectal cancer. In the present study, it was found that high JAB1 expression in primary colorectal cancer tissues is an independent predictor of recurrence following 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-based adjuvant chemotherapy in colorectal cancer patients, and that high expression of both JAB1 and STAT3 in primary colorectal cancer tissues is associated with a lower recurrence-free survival rate following 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy compared to high expression of only JAB1 or STAT3. Overall, these results suggest that JAB1 is a novel predictive marker of recurrence following 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy in colorectal cancer patients, and that the JAB1-STAT3 activation loop may be a potential therapeutic target in recurrent colorectal cancer following 5-FU-based adjuvant chemotherapy.
Deregulation of the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) pathway has been documented in colorectal cancer (CRC). Previously, we investigated possible associations between urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) deficiency and expression of extracellular constituents of BMP signaling in a newly developed mouse model of inflammation-driven intestinal neoplasmatogenesis, in which chronic colitis and CRC are induced using dextran sodium sulfate (DSS). In this report, we explored the contribution of intracellular components of Smad-mediated BMP signal transduction using the same model. Interestingly, upon DSS treatment, we noticed an overexpression of Runx1/2/3 transcription factors in both wild-type and uPA-deficient mice. Moreover, Runx1 and Runx2 expression levels exhibited an even higher increase in DSS-treated/uPA-deficient mice as compared to DSS-treated/wild-type animals. In all experimental conditions, in situ investigation of Runx-expressing cell types, revealed detection of all three Runx in the immune cells, yet in the DSS-treated/uPA-deficient mice Runx1 and Runx2 were also identified in the preneoplastic epithelium of advanced high-grade dysplasia and carcinoma in-situ colonic lesions. Finally, the uPA-deficient pro-tumorigenic colitic microenvironment exhibited increased levels of the Runx-induced target genes Snai2, Bim and Claudin1, known to have a role in tumor development and progression. These findings suggest that the absence of uPA correlates with increased levels of Runx transcriptional regulators in a way that promotes inflammation-associated carcinogenesis.
Gene promoter methylation has been reported in gastric cancer (GC). However, the potential applications of blood-based gene promoter methylation as a noninvasive biomarker for GC detection remain to be evaluated. Hence, we performed this analysis to determine whether promoter methylation of 11 tumor-related genes could become a promising biomarker in blood samples in GC. We found that the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (p16), E-cadherin (CDH1), runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), human mutL homolog 1 (MLH1), RAS association domain family protein 1A (RASSF1A), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2B (p15), adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), Glutathione S-transferase P1 (GSTP1), TP53 dependent G2 arrest mediator candidate (Reprimo), and O6-methylguanine-DNAmethyl-transferase (MGMT) promoter methylation was notably higher in blood samples of patients with GC compared with non-tumor controls. While death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) promoter methylation was not correlated with GC. Further analyses demonstrated that RUNX3, RASSF1A and Reprimo promoter methylation had a good diagnostic capacity in blood samples of GC versus non-tumor controls (RUNX3: sensitivity = 63.2% and specificity = 97.5%, RASSF1A: sensitivity = 61.5% and specificity = 96.3%, Reprimo: sensitivity = 82.0% and specificity = 89.0%). Our findings indicate that promoter methylation of the RUNX3, RASSF1A and Reprimo genes could be powerful and potential noninvasive biomarkers for the detection and diagnosis of GC in blood samples in clinical practices, especially Reprimo gene. Further well-designed (multi-center) and prospective clinical studies with large populations are needed to confirm these findings in the future.
PURPOSES: SMAD4/DPC4 mutations have been associated with aggressive behavior in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDAC), and it has recently been suggested that RUNX3 expression combined with SMAD4 status may predict the metastatic potential of PDACs. We evaluated the prognostic utility of SMAD4/RUNX3 status in human PDACs by immunohistochemistry.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Immunohistochemical stains were performed for SMAD4 and RUNX3 on 210 surgically resected PDACs, and the results were correlated with the clinicopathological features.RESULTS: Loss of SMAD4 expression was associated with poor overall survival (OS) (p = 0.015) and progression-free survival (PFS) (p = 0.044). Nuclear RUNX3 expression was associated with decreased OS (p = 0.010) and PFS (p = 0.009), and more frequent in poorly differentiated PDACs (p = 0.037). On combining RUNX3/SMAD4 status, RUNX3-/SMAD4+ PDACs demonstrated longer OS (p = 0.008, median time; RUNX3-/SMAD4+ 34 months, others 17 months) and PFS (p = 0.009, median time; RUNX3-/SMAD4+ 29 months, others 8 months) compared to RUNX3+/SMAD4+ and SMAD4- groups; RUNX3-/SMAD4+ was a significant independent predictive factor for both OS [p = 0.025, HR 1.842 (95% CI 1.079-3.143)] and PFS [p = 0.020, HR 1.850 (95% CI 1.100-3.113)].CONCLUSIONS: SMAD4-positivity with RUNX3-negativity was a significant independent predictive factor for favorable OS and PFS in PDAC. This is the first and large clinicopathological study of RUNX3/SMAD4 expression status in human PDAC. Combination immunohistochemistry for SMAD4 and RUNX3 may help identify a favorable prognostic subgroup of PDAC.
Studies of genomic instability have historically focused on intrinsic mechanisms rather than extrinsic mechanisms based in the tumor microenvironment (TME). TGFβ is the most abundantly secreted cytokine in the TME, where it imparts various aggressive characteristics including invasive migration, drug resistance, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Here we show that TGFβ also promotes genomic instability in the form of DNA double strand breaks (DSB) in cancer cells that lack the tumor suppressor gene RUNX3 Loss of RUNX3 resulted in transcriptional downregulation of the redox regulator heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1 or HMOX1). Consequently, elevated oxidative DNA damage disrupted genomic integrity and triggered cellular senescence, which was accompanied by tumor-promoting inflammatory cytokine expression and acquisition of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Recapitulating the above findings, tumors harboring a TGFβ gene expression signature and RUNX3 loss exhibited higher levels of genomic instability. In summary, RUNX3 creates an effective barrier against further TGFβ-dependent tumor progression by preventing genomic instability. These data suggest a novel cooperation between cancer cell-extrinsic TGFβ signaling and cancer cell-intrinsic RUNX3 inactivation as aggravating factors for genomic instability.Significance: RUNX3 inactivation in cancer removes an antioxidant barrier against DNA double strand breaks induced by TGFβ expressed in the tumor microenvironment. Cancer Res; 78(1); 88-102. ©2017 AACR.
Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.
Physical activity confers many health benefits, but the underlying mechanisms require further exploration. In this pilot randomized controlled trial we tested the association between longitudinal measures of DNA methylation and changes in objective measures, including physical activity, weight loss, and C-reactive protein levels in community-dwelling women aged 55 to 70 years. We assessed DNA methylation from 20 healthy postmenopausal women, who did not have a mobility disability and allocated them to a group-based intervention, Everyday Activity Supports You, or a control group (monthly group-based health-related education sessions). The original randomized controlled trial was 6 months in duration and consisted of nine 2-h sessions that focused on reducing sedentary behaviour for the intervention group, or six 1-h sessions that focused on other topics for the control group. We collected peripheral blood mononuclear cells, both at baseline and 6 months later. Samples were processed using the Illumina 450k Methylation array to quantify DNA methylation at >485 000 CpG sites in the genome. There were no significant associations between DNA methylation and physical activity, but we did observe alterations at epigenetic modifications that correlated with change in percent body weight over a 6-month period at 12 genomic loci, 2 of which were located near the previously reported weight-associated genes RUNX3 and NAMPT. We also generated a potential epigenetic predictor of weight loss using baseline DNA methylation at 5 CpG sites. These exploratory findings suggest a potential biological link between body weight changes and epigenetic processes.
Although bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9) is highly capable of promoting the osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) both in vitro and in vivo, the molecular mechanisms involved remain to be fully elucidated. Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX)3 is an essential regulator of osteoblast/chondrocyte maturation. However, the exact role of RUNX3 in BMP9 osteoinductive activity is unknown. In this study, we sought to investigate the functional role of RUNX3 in the BMP9-induced osteogenic differentiation of MSCs. We found that BMP9 upregulated the endogenous expression of RUNX3 in MSCs. The overexpression or/and knockdown of RUNX3 both increased the levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) a marker of BMP9-induced early osteogenic differentiation. Nevertheless, matrix mineralization, a marker of BMP9-induced late osteogenic differentiation was enhanced by the overexpression of RUNX3, whereas it was inhibited by the knockdown of RUNX3. The BMP9-induced expression of osteogenic pivotal transcription factors [inhibitor of differentiation (Id)3, distal-less homeobox 5 (DLX5) and RUNX2)] was further increased by the overexpression of RUNX3; however, it was reduced by the knockdown of RUNX3. However, the expression levels of Id1 and Id2 were both enhanced by the overexpression or/and knockdown of RUNX3. The BMP9-induced phosphorylation of Smad1/5/8 was increased with the overexpression of RUNX3, and yet was decreased with the knockdown of RUNX3. Collectively, our findings suggest that RUNX3 is an essential modulator of the BMP9-induced osteoblast lineage differentiation of MSCs.
This study is to investigate the methylation status of multiple tumor suppressor 1 (p16), secreted glycoprotein 2 (SLIT2), scavenger receptor class A, member 5 putative (SCARA5), and human runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) genes in the peripheral blood of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).This is a case-control study. The peripheral blood samples were collected from 25 HCC patients, 25 patients with high risk of HCC (defined as "internal control group"), and 25 healthy individuals (defined as "external control group"), respectively. Then the methylation status of p16, SLIT2, SCARA5, and Runx3 genes in the blood samples were analyzed by pyrosequencing. The relationship between the methylation and the clinical features of HCC patients were evaluated.The methylation levels in the 7 CpG loci of p16 gene in HCC patients were low and without statistically significant difference (P > .05) compared to the control groups. Although the methylation levels of CpG3 and CpG4 in SLIT2 gene loci were higher than those of the control groups, there was no statistically significant difference (P > .05). However, the methylation rate of CpG2 locus in SCARA5 gene in HCC patients was significantly higher (P < .05). And the methylation rates of CpG1, CpG2, CpG3, CpG4, CpG5, and CpG8 in Runx3 gene in HCC patients were significantly different to that of control groups (P < .05). We also have analyzed the correlations between the CpG islands methylation of Runx3 or SCARA5 genes and the age, gender, hepatitis B, liver cirrhosis, alpha fetal protein, or hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) of the HCC patients, which all showed no significant correlations (P > .05).The methylation status of SCARA5 and Runx3 genes are abnormal in HCC patients, which may further be used as molecular markers for early auxiliary diagnosis of liver cancer.
Comment in    Reprod Sci. 2017 Nov;24(11):1481.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported as a tumor suppressor in some kinds of cancers. In the present study, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) microarray analysis showed that RUNX3 expression was significantly lower in HCC tissues compared with that in adjacent non-tumor tissues, and was negatively associated with metastasis and TNM stage. RUNX3 was an independently prognostic factor for 5-year overall and disease-free patient survival. Mechanically, RUNX3 repressed metastasis and invasion of HCC, and increased E-cadherin expression. RUNX3 also repressed microRNA-186 to increase E-cadherin expression. We demonstrated that miR-186 mimics attenuated RUNX3-induced increase of E-cadherin and inhibition of metastasis and invasion. In conclusion, RUNX3 suppressed HCC cell migration and invasion by targeting the miR-186/E-cadherin/EMT pathway. RUNX3 may be recommended as an effective prognostic indicator and therapeutic target for patients with HCC.
The Runt-related transcription factor (RUNX) gene family consists of three members, RUNX1, -2 and -3, which heterodimerize with a common protein, core-binding factor β, and contain the highly conserved Runt-homology domain. RUNX1 and -2 have essential roles in hematopoiesis and osteogenesis. Runx3 protein regulates cell lineage decisions in neurogenesis and thymopoiesis. The aim of the present study was to determine the expression features of the Runx3 protein in a murine asthma model. In vivo, Runx3 protein and mRNA were found to be almost equivalently expressed in the murine lung tissue of the control, ovalbumin (OVA) and genistein groups; however, the nuclear Runx3 protein was abated in lung tissue in OVA-immunized and challenged mice. Following treatment with genistein, which is a flavonoid previously demonstrated to decrease airway inflammation in asthma, the allergic airway inflammation and airway hyper-responsiveness were attenuated and the Runx3 protein tended to augment in the nucleus. These results were further determined in vitro. These results indicated that the mislocalization of Runx3 protein is a molecular mechanism of allergic inflammation and airway hyper-responsiveness in a murine asthma model.
Genetic studies and molecular cloning approaches have been successfully used to identify several transcription factors that regulate the numerous stages of cartilage development. Sex-determining region Y (SRY)-box 9 (Sox9) is an essential transcription factor for the initial stage of cartilage development. Sox5 and Sox6 play an important role in the chondrogenic action of Sox9, presumably by defining its cartilage specificity. Several transcription factors have been identified as transcriptional partners for Sox9 during cartilage development. Runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) and Runx3 are necessary for hypertrophy of chondrocytes. CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein β (C/EBPβ) and activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4) function as co-activators for Runx2 during hypertrophy of chondrocytes. In addition, myocyte-enhancer factor 2C (Mef2C) is required for initiation of chondrocyte hypertrophy, presumably by functioning upstream of Runx2. Importantly, the pathogenic roles of several transcription factors in osteoarthritis have been demonstrated based on the similarity of pathological phenomena seen in osteoarthritis with chondrocyte hypertrophy. We discuss the importance of investigating cellular and molecular properties of articular chondrocytes and degradation mechanisms in osteoarthritis, one of the most common cartilage diseases.
T-lineage committed precursor thymocytes are screened by a fate-determination process mediated via T cell receptor (TCR) signals for differentiation into distinct lineages. However, it remains unclear whether any antecedent event is required to couple TCR signals with the transcriptional program governing lineage decisions. Here we show that Bcl11b, known as a T-lineage commitment factor, is essential for proper expression of ThPOK and Runx3, central regulators for the CD4-helper/CD8-cytotoxic lineage choice. Loss of Bcl11b results in random expression of these factors and, thereby, lineage scrambling that is disconnected from TCR restriction by MHC. Initial Thpok repression by Bcl11b prior to the pre-selection stage is independent of a known silencer for Thpok, and requires the last zinc-finger motif in Bcl11b protein, which by contrast is dispensable for T-lineage commitment. Collectively, our findings shed new light on the function of Bcl11b in priming lineage-specifying genes to integrate TCR signals into subsequent transcriptional regulatory mechanisms.CD4 and CD8 T cells develop in the thymus with their transcription programs controlled by ThPOK and Runx3, respectively. Here the authors show that a pre-commitment event modulated by the transcription factor, Bcl11b, is required for the proper expression of ThPOK and Runx3 and correct CD4/CD8 lineage commitment.
Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a major challenge for premature infants; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We previously reported that epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in alveolar type II (AT2) epithelial cells influences the normal alveolar development process. In this study, we wished to examine whether Runx3 is an important factor for BPD by regulating EMT in AT2 cells. In vivo, animal models of BPD were established by placing newborn rats in hyperoxia tanks. Lung tissue and isolated AT2 cells were collected on different days following exposure to oxygen. The pathological changes in lung tissue, alveolar development and Runx3 expression were then investigated. In vitro, RLE-6TN cells were divided into 5 groups as follows: the cont-rol, Runx3, siRunx3, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and Runx3 + TGF-β1 groups, and the biomarkers of EMT were investigated. In the newborn rat model of BPD, Runx3 protein and mRNA levels in both lung tissue and BPD-derived AT2 cells were significantly lower than those in the control group. The correlation between Runx3 protein expression and pulmonary development indicators was analyzed; Runx3 expression positively correlated with the radial alveolar count (RAC) and the percentage of smooth muscle actin-positive secondary septa, but negatively correlated with alveolar wall thickness. EMT was observed in the RLE-6TN cells in which the Runx3 gene was knocked down and follwoing TGF-β1‑induced EMT stimulation; however, TGF-β1 failed to induce EMT in the RLE-6TN cells overexpressing Runx3. On the whole, our data indicte that low Runx3 levels may promote EMT, while high Runx3 levels inhibit TGF-β1-induced EMT. Therefore, we predict that low levels of Runx3 in BPD lung tissue may promote EMT in AT2 cells, thus affecting alveolar development.
T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling in the thymus initiates positive selection, but the CD8+-lineage fate is thought to be induced by cytokines after TCR signaling has ceased, although this remains controversial and unproven. We have identified four cytokines (IL-6, IFN-γ, TSLP and TGF-β) that did not signal via the common γ-chain (γc) receptor but that, like IL-7 and IL-15, induced expression of the lineage-specifying transcription factor Runx3d and signaled the generation of CD8+ T cells. Elimination of in vivo signaling by all six of these 'lineage-specifying cytokines' during positive selection eliminated Runx3d expression and completely abolished the generation of CD8+ single-positive thymocytes. Thus, this study proves that signaling during positive selection by lineage-specifying cytokines is responsible for all CD8+-lineage-fate 'decisions' in the thymus.
The identification of biomarkers would be of benefit for the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer. DNA methylation in specific genomic regions, which had shown strongly association with disease genotypes, was an effective indicator to reveal the occurrence and development of cancers. To screen out methylation biomarkers for colorectal cancer (CRC), genomic DNA was isolated from colorectal cancerous and corresponding cancer-adjacent tissues collected from 30 CRC patients and then bisulfite-converted. The exon regions of 5 targeted genes (CNRIP1, HIC1, RUNX3, p15, and SFRP2) were amplified by using nested polymerase chain reaction with specific primers, and the amplicon was purified and hydrolyzed. The methylation levels of these specific regions were detected by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The results showed that 5 targeted exon regions were successfully amplified and confirmed by sequencing. The methodological validations indicated that LC-MS/MS was highly sensitive and accurate. The methylation levels of CNRIP1 and RUNX3 were remarkably high in CRC tissues with statistical difference when compared with corresponding cancer-adjacent individuals, while that of HIC1, p15, and SFRP2 had no difference between 2 subjects. These findings supported CNRIP1 and RUNX3 as potential DNA methylation biomarkers for CRC diagnosis and treatment, and our LC-MS/MS approach exhibited great advantages in the identification of regional DNA methylation biomarkers.
MicroRNAs are increasingly recognized as important regulators of cancer. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of miR-106b in the regulation of Y79 retinoblastoma. Y79 cells were transfected with antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) against miR-106b (ASO-miR-106b) or ASO-control. After transfection, the levels of miR-106b were monitored with real-time PCR (RT-PCR). The effects of ASO-miR-106b transfection on cell viability was evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) analysis at 24, 48 and 72 h after transfection. Subsequently, the cells were stained with Annexin V-FITC and propidium iodide (PI) and subjected to flow cytometry to assess cell apoptosis. Transwell assay was used to analyze cell migration. Changes in Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) mRNA and proteins levels were also evaluated. miR-106b was downregulated by ASO-miR-106b at 48 and 72 h after transfection, accompanied by a decrease in cell viability and proliferation, as well as an increase in cell apoptosis. Transwell analysis indicated that cells treated with ASO-miR-106b exhibited significantly lower cell migratory abilities. The mRNA and protein level of Runx3 were upregulated after transfection. These results demonstrated that suppression of miR-106b inhibited Y79 cell proliferation and migration. The upregulation of Runx3 after miR-106b suppression ascertained that Runx3 is a tumor-suppressor in retinoblastoma and is a target of miR-106b.
BACKGROUND: Male breast cancer (MBC) represents a poorly characterised group of tumours, the management of which is largely based on practices established for female breast cancer. However, recent studies demonstrate biological and molecular differences likely to impact on tumour behaviour and therefore patient outcome. The aim of this study was to investigate methylation of a panel of commonly methylated breast cancer genes in familial MBCs.METHODS: 60 tumours from 3 BRCA1 and 25 BRCA2 male mutation carriers and 32 males from BRCAX families were assessed for promoter methylation by methylation-sensitive high resolution melting in a panel of 10 genes (RASSF1A, TWIST1, APC, WIF1, MAL, RARβ, CDH1, RUNX3, FOXC1 and GSTP1). An average methylation index (AMI) was calculated for each case comprising the average of the methylation of the 10 genes tested as an indicator of overall tumour promoter region methylation. Promoter hypermethylation and AMI were correlated with BRCA carrier mutation status and clinicopathological parameters including tumour stage, grade, histological subtype and disease specific survival.RESULTS: Tumours arising in BRCA2 mutation carriers showed significantly higher methylation of candidate genes, than those arising in non-BRCA2 familial MBCs (average AMI 23.6 vs 16.6, p = 0.01, 45% of genes hypermethylated vs 34%, p < 0.01). RARβ methylation and AMI-high status were significantly associated with tumour size (p = 0.01 and p = 0.02 respectively), RUNX3 methylation with invasive carcinoma of no special type (94% vs 69%, p = 0.046) and RASSF1A methylation with coexistence of high grade ductal carcinoma in situ (33% vs 6%, p = 0.02). Cluster analysis showed MBCs arising in BRCA2 mutation carriers were characterised by RASSF1A, WIF1, RARβ and GTSP1 methylation (p = 0.02) whereas methylation in BRCAX tumours showed no clear clustering to particular genes. TWIST1 methylation (p = 0.001) and AMI (p = 0.01) were prognostic for disease specific survival.CONCLUSIONS: Increased methylation defines a subset of familial MBC and with AMI may be a useful prognostic marker. Methylation might be predictive of response to novel therapeutics that are currently under investigation in other cancer types.
BACKGROUND/AIM: In genetically engineered murine models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas (PDAC), high levels of Runx3 increase the metastatic potential of cancer cells. In this study we evaluated the role of Runx3 in human pancreatic cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Runx3 was retrospectively assessed by immunohistochemistry in seventy-eight tumor samples of patients who underwent surgical resection for PDCA and were followed at least for 24 months.RESULTS: Thirty-two cases resulted completely negative for Runx3; forty-six showed highly variable expression. We established an optimal cut-off value of Runx3 in predicting distant metastasis equal to 0.04. The odds ratio (ORs) for development of distant metastases at multivariate analysis for patients having Runx3 ≥0.04 was 4.26 (p=0.043) and 4.68 (p=0.032) after adjusting for residual tumor and treatment, respectively; OR for development of metastases in multiple sites was 4.28 (p=0.025) for Runx3 ≥0.04.CONCLUSION: Our results support the ability of Runx3 to contribute to the dissemination of human PDAC thus confirming the observations from murine models.
The restriction (R)-point decision is fundamental to normal differentiation and the G1-S transition, and the decision-making machinery is perturbed in nearly all cancer cells. The mechanisms underlying the cellular context-dependent R-point decision remain poorly understood. We found that the R-point was dysregulated in Runx3-/-mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), which formed tumors in nude mice. Ectopic expression of Runx3 restored the R-point and abolished the tumorigenicity of Runx3-/-MEFs and K-Ras-activated Runx3-/-MEFs (Runx3-/-;K-RasG12D/+). During the R-point, Runx3 transiently formed a complex with pRb and Brd2 and induced Cdkn1a (p21Waf1/Cip1/Sdi1; p21), a key regulator of the R-point transition. Cyclin D-CDK4/6 promoted dissociation of the pRb-Runx3-Brd2 complex, thus turning off p21 expression. However, cells harboring oncogenic K-Ras maintained the pRb-Runx3-Brd2 complex and p21 expression even after introduction of Cyclin D1. Thus, Runx3 plays a critical role in R-point regulation and defense against cellular transformation.
Successful fracture repair requires restoration of bone morphology and mechanical integrity. Recent evidence shows that fractured bones of neonatal mice undergo spontaneous realignment, dubbed "natural reduction." Here, we show that natural reduction is regulated by the proprioceptive system and improves with age. Comparison among mice of different ages revealed, surprisingly, that 3-month-old mice exhibited more rapid and effective natural reduction than newborns. Fractured bones of null mutants for transcription factor Runx3, lacking functional proprioceptors, failed to realign properly. Blocking Runx3 expression in the peripheral nervous system, but not in limb mesenchyme, recapitulated the null phenotype, as did inactivation of muscles flanking the fracture site. Egr3 knockout mice, which lack muscle spindles but not Golgi tendon organs, displayed a less severe phenotype, suggesting that both receptor types, as well as muscle contraction, are required for this regulatory mechanism. These findings uncover a physiological role for proprioception in non-autonomous regulation of skeletal integrity.
Maintaining posture requires tight regulation of the position and orientation of numerous spinal components. Yet, surprisingly little is known about this regulatory mechanism, whose failure may result in spinal deformity as in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Here, we use genetic mouse models to demonstrate the involvement of proprioception in regulating spine alignment. Null mutants for Runx3 transcription factor, which lack TrkC neurons connecting between proprioceptive mechanoreceptors and spinal cord, developed peripubertal scoliosis not preceded by vertebral dysplasia or muscle asymmetry. Deletion of Runx3 in the peripheral nervous system or specifically in peripheral sensory neurons, or of enhancer elements driving Runx3 expression in proprioceptive neurons, induced a similar phenotype. Egr3 knockout mice, lacking muscle spindles, but not Golgi tendon organs, displayed a less severe phenotype, suggesting that both receptor types may be required for this regulatory mechanism. These findings uncover a central role for the proprioceptive system in maintaining spinal alignment.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between nutritional status and expression of RUNX3 in gastric cancer cells and to investigate the effects of nursing strategies on the nutritional status of elderly patients with advanced gastric cancer.METHODS: Forty-eight elderly patients admitted at Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University with advanced gastric cancer and 30 healthy controls were selected as subjects from 2014-15. The correlation between RNX3 gene expression and nutritional status of the gastric cancer patients was investigated. The patients with advanced gastric cancer who had low expression of RUNX3 gene were treated with holistic nursing while routine nursing was taken for those patients who had normal or high expression of RUNX3 gene. The nutritional statuses of these patients were evaluated after 3 months of nursing. After a follow-up of 1 year, the influence of different nursing methods on the survival time was evaluated.RESULTS: Compared with normal gastric tissue, the expression of RUNX3 gene and protein in tissues of advanced gastric cancer were significantly decreased (P<0.01). Compared with patients with normal or high expressions of RUNX3, the nutritional statuses of advanced gastric cancer patients with low expressions of RUNX3 were lower (P<0.01). The nutritional statuses of patients with low expressions of RUNX3 were notably improved after holistic nursing, becoming equivalent to those with normal or high expression of RUNX3 who received routine nursing (P>0.05). The survival time of patients with low expression of RUNX3 who received holistic nursing were similar to patients with normal or high expression of RUNX3 who received routine nursing (P>0.05).CONCLUSION: RUNX3 is correlated with the occurrence and development of advanced gastric cancer. The low nutritional status of elderly advanced gastric cancer patients with low expressions of RUNX3 can be significantly enhanced by holistic nursing, thereby prolonging survival time.
We investigated the ability of microRNA-93 (miR-93) to influence proliferation, invasion, migration, and apoptosisofrenal cell carcinoma (RCC) cells via transforming growth factor-β/solvated metal atom dispersed (TGF-β/Smad) signaling by targeting runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3). RCC tissues with corresponding adjacent normal tissues were collected from 249 RCC patients. And normal renal tissues were collected from patients without RCC who received nephrectomy. The RCC cell line ACHN was treated with miR-93 mimic, mimic-negative control (NC), miR-93 inhibitor, inhibitor-NC, and miR-93 inhibitor + small interfering RNA (siRNA) against RUNX3 (si-RUNX3). Expression of miR-93, RUNX3, TGF-β, and Smad4 were evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting. Cell proliferation was assessed by the Metallothioneins (MTS) assay, cell invasion by the wound-healing assay, cell migration by the Transwell assay, and cell cycle and apoptosis by flow cytometry. Compared with normal renal tissues, the expression of miR-93 and TGF-β were higher while that of RUNX3 and Smad4 were low in RCC and adjacent normal tissues (all P<0.05). RUNX3 was confirmed as a target of miR-93 by the dual luciferase reporter gene assay. Compared with mimic-NC group, cell proliferation, invasion, migration and cells from G0/G1 to S phase enhanced but the apoptosis decreased in the miR-93 mimic group (all P<0.05). Compared with inhibitor-NC group, proliferation, invasion, and migration reduced, while apoptosis increased, and cells at G0/G1 phase arrested in the miR-93 inhibitor group (all P<0.05). Compared with miR-93 inhibitor group, cell proliferation, invasion, and migration increased with increasing cells from G1 to S phase while the apoptosis decreased, in miR-93 inhibitor + si-RUNX3 group (all P<0.05). In conclusion, miR-93 inhibits apoptosis and promotes proliferation, invasion, and migration of RCC cells via TGF-β/Smad signaling by inhibiting RUNX3.
Asthma is tightly related to the imbalance of Th1/Th2 cells, and Runx3 plays a pivotal role in the differentiation of T helper cells. The present study aimed to investigate dysregulated microRNAs that may target Runx3 in CD4+ T cells from asthmatic patients and reveal Runx3 function in Th1/Th2 balance regulation. We detected the levels of Th1- and Th2-related cytokines by ELISA and analyzed the differentiation marker gene of T helper cells by qRT-PCR. Results indicated that an imbalance of Th1/Th2 cells was present in our asthmatic subject. Runx3 expression was reduced in the CD4+ T cells from asthmatic patients. Overexpression of Runx3 could restore the Th1/Th2 balance. After performing microRNA microarray assay, we found a series of microRNAs that were considerably altered in the CD4+ T cells from asthmatic patients. Among these upregulated microRNAs, eight microRNAs that may target Runx3 were selected by bioinformatics prediction. Five microRNAs, namely miR-371, miR-138, miR-544, miR-145, and miR-214, were confirmed by qRT-PCR and selected as candidate microRNAs. Luciferase reporter assay showed that these five microRNAs could directly target the 3'-UTR of Runx3. However, only simultaneous inhibition of these five microRNAs could alter the expression of Runx3. Most importantly, only simultaneous inhibition could improve the Th1/Th2 balance. Thus, we suggest that miR-371, miR-138, miR-544, miR-145, and miR-214 can modulate the Th1/Th2 balance in asthma by regulating Runx3 in a combinatorial manner.
Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) is a highly conserved histone methyltransferase, which is overexpressed in different types of cancers such as breast and prostate cancer. It is reported that EZH2 can directly down-regulate RUNX3 by increasing histone H3 methylation. However, the role of EZH2 in the development and progression of laryngeal carcinoma has not yet been investigated, and the relationship between EZH2 and RUNX3 in laryngeal carcinoma is rarely reported. The current study aims to determine the role of EZH2 in the progression of laryngeal carcinoma, and investigate the interaction between EZH2 and the tumor suppressor RUNX3. Our study found that EZH2 is overexpressed in laryngeal carcinoma patients, and silencing EZH2 by EZH2 siRNA significantly inhibited the proliferation of laryngeal carcinoma cells. Besides, we also found that RUNX3 is repressed in laryngeal carcinoma patients. Moreover, RUNX3 as a downstream target protein of EZH2 is up-regulated by EZH2 siRNA accompanied by a decrease in the trimethylation modification pattern of H3K27. RUNX3 siRNA inhibits the decreased proliferation induced by EZH2 siRNA. Furthermore, β-catenin protein expression is down-regulated by EZH2 siRNA and up-regulated by RUNX3 siRNA, and RUNX3 siRNA inhibits the down-regulation effect of EZH2 siRNA on β-catenin protein expression. Additionally, the Wnt/β-catenin activator BIO reverses the inhibitory effect of EZH2 siRNA on Hep-2 cell proliferation. Taken together, our results suggest that EZH2 regulates cell proliferation potentially by targeting RUNX3 through the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathway in laryngeal carcinoma.
Arsenic is globally infamous for inducing immunosuppression associated with prevalence of opportunistic infection in exposed population, although the mechanism remains elusive. In this study, we investigate the effect of arsenic exposure on thymocyte lineage commitment and the involvement of regulatory T cells (Treg) in arsenic-induced immunosuppression. Male Balb/c mice were exposed to 0.038, 0.38 and 3.8 ppm sodium arsenite for 7, 15 and 30 days through oral gavage. Arsenic exposure promoted CD4 lineage commitment in a dose dependent manner supported by the expression of ThPOK in thymus. Arsenic also increased splenic CD4+ T cells and promoted their differentiation into Treg cells. In parallel,﻿ arsenic exposure induced immunosuppression characterized by low cytokine secretion from splenocytes and increased susceptibility to Mycobacterium fortuitum (M. fortuitum) infection. Therefore, we linked arsenic-induced rise in Treg cells with suppressed Th1 and Th2 related cytokines, which has been reversed by inhibition of Treg cells in-vivo using wortmannin. Other parameters like body weight, kidney and liver function, histoanatomy of thymus and spleen as well as thymocyte and splenocytes viability were unaltered by arsenic exposure. Taken together our findings indicated that environmentally relevant dose of arsenic enhanced differentiation of Treg cells which in turn induce immunosuppression in experimental animals.
Although aberrant expression of Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) contributes to tumor progression and metastasis in a number of carcinomas, the status of RUNX3 and its correlation with prognosis in oral squamous cell carcinomas (OSCC) are still controversial. The aim of present study was to investigate the function of RUNX3 in OSCC and the underlying molecular mechanisms. Tissue microarray (TMA) consisting of 232 OSCC specimens was used to detect the expression of RUNX3 by immunohistochemistry method. The effects of RUNX3 restoration on OSCC cell migration and invasion were determined by wound-healing assay, migration and Matrigel cell invasion assays. The antiangiogenic role of RUNX3 was analyzed by testing proliferation and tube formation of human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVECs) cultured with conditioned medium from RUNX3 transfected OSCC cell lines. The activities of MMP-9 and VEGF in RUNX3 transfected OSCC cell lines were examined by western blot and Elisa methods. RUNX3 expression was reduced in OSCC specimens and significantly associated with tumor size (P=0.002), lymph node statue (P=0.0036) and clinical stage (P=0.0001). Negative expression of RUNX3 correlated with worse 5-year overall and disease-specific survival rates (P=0.0348 and P=0.0301, respectively). Furthermore, we found that RUNX3 restoration suppressed cell migration and invasion through downregulating MMP-9 expression and secretion, and exerted antiangiogenic capability by inhibiting VEGF activity in HN6 and Cal27 cells. These findings suggested that RUNX3 played a tumor suppressor role in OSCC by inhibiting cell migration, invasion and angiogenesis, supporting that it could be a potential therapeutic target for OSCC.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is detected in about 10% of gastric carcinoma cases throughout the world. In EBV-associated gastric carcinoma (EBVaGC), all tumor cells harbor the clonal EBV genome. The expression of latent EBV genes is strictly regulated through the methylation of EBV DNA. The methylation of viral DNA regulates the type of EBV latency, and methylation of the tumor suppressor genes is a key abnormality in EBVaGC. The methylation frequencies of several tumor suppressor genes and cell adhesion molecules are significantly higher in EBVaGC than in control cases. EBV-derived microRNAs repress translation from viral and host mRNAs. EBV regulates the expression of non-coding RNA in gastric carcinoma. With regard to the clinical application of demethylating agents against EBVaGC, we investigated the effects of decitabine against the EBVaGC cell lines. Decitabine inhibited the cell growth of EBVaGC cells. The promoter regions of p73 and Runt-related transcription factor 3(RUNX3) were demethylated, and their expression was upregulated by the treatment. We review the role of epigenetic regulation in the development and maintenance of EBVaGC and discuss the therapeutic application of DNA demethylating agents for EBVaGC.
The CD4+ lineage-specific transcription factor Thpok is required for intrathymic CD4+ T cell differentiation and, together with its homolog LRF, supports CD4+ T cell helper effector responses. However, it is not known whether these factors are needed for the regulatory T cell (Treg) arm of MHC class II responses. In this study, by inactivating in mice the genes encoding both factors in differentiated Tregs, we show that Thpok and LRF are redundantly required to maintain the size and functions of the postthymic Treg pool. They support IL-2-mediated gene expression and the functions of the Treg-specific factor Foxp3. Accordingly, Treg-specific disruption of Thpok and Lrf causes a lethal inflammatory syndrome similar to that resulting from Treg deficiency. Unlike in conventional T cells, Thpok and LRF functions in Tregs are not mediated by their repression of the transcription factor Runx3. Additionally, we found that Thpok is needed for the differentiation of thymic Treg precursors, an observation in line with the fact that Foxp3+ Tregs are CD4+ cells. Thus, a common Thpok-LRF node supports both helper and regulatory arms of MHC class II responses.
In terrestrial vertebrates such as birds and mammals, neurotrophin receptor expression is considered fundamental for the specification of distinct somatosensory neuron types where TrkA, TrkB and TrkC specify nociceptors, mechanoceptors and proprioceptors/mechanoceptors, respectively. In turn, Runx transcription factors promote neuronal fate specification by regulating neurotrophin receptor and sensory receptor expression where Runx1 mediates TrkA+ nociceptor diversification while Runx3 promotes a TrkC+ proprioceptive/mechanoceptive fate. Here, we report in zebrafish larvae that orthologs of the neurotrophin receptors in contrast to terrestrial vertebrates mark overlapping and distinct subsets of nociceptors suggesting that TrkA, TrkB and TrkC do not intrinsically promote nociceptor, mechanoceptor and proprioceptor/mechanoceptor neuronal fates, respectively. While we find that zebrafish Runx3 regulates nociceptors in contrast to terrestrial vertebrates, it shares a conserved regulatory mechanism found in terrestrial vertebrate proprioceptors/mechanoceptors in which it promotes TrkC expression and suppresses TrkB expression. We find that Cbfβ, which enhances Runx protein stability and affinity for DNA, serves as an obligate cofactor for Runx in neuronal fate determination. High levels of Runx can compensate for the loss of Cbfβ, indicating that in this context Cbfβ serves solely as a signal amplifier of Runx activity. Our data suggests an alteration/expansion of the neurotrophin receptor code of sensory neurons between larval teleost fish and terrestrial vertebrates, while the essential roles of Runx/Cbfβ in sensory neuron cell fate determination while also expanded are conserved.
Irreversible pulmonary fibrosis induced by paraquat (PQ) poisoning is the major cause of death in patients with PQ poisoning. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is postulated to be one of the main mechanisms of pulmonary fibrosis. Here, we investigated the role of miR-210 in PQ-induced EMT and its relationship with hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α). Western blotting, immunofluorescence, immunoprecipitation and other methods were used in this study. We found that miR-210 expression was significantly increased after PQ poisoning, and it may be regulated by HIF-1α. Overexpression of miR-210 further increased the HIF-1α protein level and promoted EMT. Moreover, miR-210 knock-down reduced the HIF-1α protein level and decreased the degree of EMT. Runt-related transcription factor-3 (RUNX3), a direct target of miR-210, was inhibited by miR-210 in response to PQ poisoning. RUNX3 increased the hydroxylation ability of prolyl hydroxylase domain-containing protein 2 (PHD2), a key enzyme that promotes HIF-1α degradation. PHD2 immunoprecipitated with RUNX3 and its level changed similarly to that of RUNX3. The expression of the HIF-1α protein was significantly reduced when RUNX3 was overexpressed. HIF-1α protein levels were markedly increased when RUNX3 was silenced. Based on these results, a positive feedback loop may exist between miR-210 and HIF-1α. The mechanism may function through miR-210-mediated repression of RUNX3, which further decreases the hydroxylation activity of PHD2, enhances the stability of HIF-1α, and promotes PQ-induced EMT, aggravating the progression of pulmonary fibrosis. This study further elucidates the mechanism of PQ-induced pulmonary fibrosis and may provide a new perspective for the future development of therapies.
The transcription factor Runx3 is a known tumor suppressor gene, and its expression is frequently lost in melanoma. However, the potential contribution of the loss of Runx3 expression to melanoma development and progression remains unclear. In this in vitro study, we demonstrated that ectopic Runx3 re-expression in B16-F10 melanoma cells changed the cell shape from elongated and branched to spread and unbranched, which enhanced stress fiber formation, increased the number of mature and fibrillar focal adhesions, and up-regulated fibronectin expression. In association with the cell shape change, the Runx3 re-expression in B16-F10 melanoma cells inhibited cell migration. Moreover, the phenotype of the Runx3 induced cell shape change was partially resembled when the melanoma cells were cultured on a fibronectin-coated coverslip, suggesting that fibronectin may mediate the Runx3 induced cell shape change of the melanoma cells. Taken together, our findings suggest that Runx3 may regulate cell shape to inhibit melanoma cell migration partly through enhancing stress fiber formation and ECM protein production. Our present study provides further evidence for the idea that cell shape change is potentially correlated with melanoma development and progression.
Lung cancer is the primary cause of cancer‑associated mortality in men and women worldwide. Increasing evidence indicates that abnormal microRNA (miRNA) expression contributes to the carcinogenesis and progression of multiple human cancers, including non‑small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Therefore, miRNAs exhibit the potential to act as biomarkers for the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis of human malignancies. miRNA‑661 (miR‑661) has previously been demonstrated to be important in the development of various human cancer types. However, the expression levels, functions and underlying mechanisms of miR‑661 in NSCLC remain to be elucidated. The present study demonstrated that miR‑661 was upregulated in NSCLC tissues and cell lines. In addition, miR‑661 expression levels were significantly correlated with differentiation and tumor stage lymph node metastasis of NSCLC patients. Functional experiments demonstrated that miR-661 downregulation inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion in vitro. Furthermore, runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was identified as a direct target of miR‑661 in NSCLC. RUNX3 was expressed at a low level in NSCLC tissues and was negatively correlated with the miR‑661 expression level. Further experiments revealed that RUNX3 knockdown significantly rescued the effects of miR‑661 underexpression on NSCLC cell proliferation and invasion. In conclusion, the present findings indicated a role for miR‑661 as an oncogene in NSCLC via direct targeting of RUNX3, thus suggesting that miR‑661 may be used to develop novel therapies for NSCLC patients.
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic autoinflammatory disease that affects the spine and sacroiliac joints. Regarding its etiology, although HLA-B27 is known to be the strongest genetic factor of AS, much evidence suggests the potential contribution of non-MHC genes to the susceptibility to AS. Most of these non-MHC genes have been discovered in non-Asian populations; however, just some of them have been validated in Koreans. In this study, we aimed to identify additional AS-associated single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) candidates by replicating the candidate SNPs in Korean AS patients and healthy controls. For this, we selected three SNPs (rs11249215 in RUNX3, rs6556416 in IL12B, and rs8070463 in TBKBP1), which were previously reported as risk factors of AS but have not been studied in Koreans, and performed genotyping assays using a total of 1138 Korean samples (572 AS patients and 566 healthy controls). Of the three SNP candidates, one SNP in RUNX3 (rs11249215) was significantly associated with the risk of AS (odds ratio, 1.31; 95% confidence interval, 1.02 to 1.68, p = 0.03). These results will be helpful in elucidating the pathogenesis of AS and may be useful for developing AS risk prediction models in Koreans.
Post translational modifications of RUNX3 have been shown to play an important role in directing RUNX3 functions. In this review we highlight the phosphorylation dependent functions of RUNX3 as regulated by PAK1 and its implications on tumorigenesis.
Immunoglobulins are the effector molecules of the adaptive humoral immune system. In a genome-wide association study of 19,219 individuals, we found 38 new variants and replicated 5 known variants associating with IgA, IgG or IgM levels or with composite immunoglobulin traits, accounted for by 32 loci. Variants at these loci also affect the risk of autoimmune diseases and blood malignancies and influence blood cell development. Notable associations include a rare variant at RUNX3 decreasing IgA levels by shifting isoform proportions (rs188468174[C>T]: P = 8.3 × 10-55, β = -0.90 s.d.), a rare in-frame deletion in FCGR2B abolishing IgG binding to the encoded receptor (p.Asn106del: P = 4.2 × 10-8, β = 1.03 s.d.), four IGH locus variants influencing class switching, and ten new associations with the HLA region. Our results provide new insight into the regulation of humoral immunity.
BACKGROUND: Evidence points to the role of DNA methylation in ulcerative colitis (UC)-associated cancer (UCC), the most serious complication of ulcerative colitis. A better understanding of the etiology of UCC may facilitate the development of new therapeutic targets and help to identify biomarkers of the disease risk.METHODS: A search was performed in three databases following PRISMA protocol. DNA methylation in UCC was compared with sporadic colorectal cancer (SCRC), and individual genes differently methylated in UCC identified.RESULTS: While there were some similarities in the methylation patterns of UCC compared with SCRC, generally lower levels of hypermethylation in promoter regions of individual genes was evident in UCC. Certain individual genes are, however, highly methylated in colitis-associated cancer: RUNX3, MINT1, MYOD and p16 exon1 and the promoter regions of EYA4 and ESR.CONCLUSION: Patterns of DNA methylation differ between UCC and SCRC. Seven genes appear to be promising putative biomarkers.
Activated CD8+ T cells differentiate into cytotoxic effector (TEFF) cells that eliminate target cells. How TEFF cell identity is established and maintained is not fully understood. We found that Runx3 deficiency limited clonal expansion and impaired upregulation of cytotoxic molecules in TEFF cells. Runx3-deficient CD8+ TEFF cells aberrantly upregulated genes characteristic of follicular helper T (TFH) cell lineage, including Bcl6, Tcf7 and Cxcr5. Mechanistically, the Runx3-CBFβ transcription factor complex deployed H3K27me3 to Bcl6 and Tcf7 genes to suppress the TFH program. Ablating Tcf7 in Runx3-deficient CD8+ TEFF cells prevented the upregulation of TFH genes and ameliorated their defective induction of cytotoxic genes. As such, Runx3-mediated Tcf7 repression coordinately enforced acquisition of cytotoxic functions and protected the cytotoxic lineage integrity by preventing TFH-lineage deviation.
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, Sichuan Academy of Medical Sciences,Sichuan Provincial People's Hospital,Chengdu 610072,China.
BACKGROUND: Chagas disease, caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi, is endemic in Latin America and affects 10 million people worldwide. Approximately 12000 deaths attributable to Chagas disease occur annually due to chronic Chagas disease cardiomyopathy (CCC), an inflammatory cardiomyopathy presenting with heart failure and arrythmia; 30% of infected subjects develop CCC years after infection. Genetic mechanisms play a role in differential progression to CCC, but little is known about the role of epigenetic modifications in pathological gene expression patterns in CCC patients' myocardium. DNA methylation is the most common modification in the mammalian genome.METHODS: We investigated the impact of genome-wide cardiac DNA methylation on global gene expression in myocardial samples from end-stage CCC patients, compared to control samples from organ donors.RESULTS: In total, 4720 genes were differentially methylated between CCC patients and controls, of which 399 were also differentially expressed. Several of them were related to heart function or to the immune response and had methylation sites in their promoter region. Reporter gene and in silico transcription factor binding analyses indicated promoter methylation modified expression of key genes. Among those, we found potassium channel genes KCNA4 and KCNIP4, involved in electrical conduction and arrythmia, SMOC2, involved in matrix remodeling, as well as enkephalin and RUNX3, potentially involved in the increased T-helper 1 cytokine-mediated inflammatory damage in heart.CONCLUSIONS: Results support that DNA methylation plays a role in the regulation of expression of pathogenically relevant genes in CCC myocardium, and identify novel potential disease pathways and therapeutic targets in CCC.
The prognostic value of CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) in colorectal cancer remains unsettled. We aimed to assess the prognostic value of this phenotype analyzing a total of 1126 tumor samples obtained from two Norwegian consecutive colorectal cancer series. CIMP status was determined by analyzing the 5-markers CAGNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3 and SOCS1 by quantitative methylation specific PCR (qMSP). The effect of CIMP on time to recurrence (TTR) and overall survival (OS) were determined by uni- and multivariate analyses. Subgroup analyses were conducted according to MSI and BRAF mutation status, disease stage, and also age at time of diagnosis (<60, 60-74, ≥75 years). Patients with CIMP positive tumors demonstrated significantly shorter TTR and worse OS compared to those with CIMP negative tumors (multivariate hazard ratio [95% CI] 1.86 [1.31-2.63] and 1.89 [1.34-2.65], respectively). In stratified analyses, CIMP tumors showed significantly worse outcome among patients with microsatellite stable (MSS, P < 0.001), and MSS BRAF mutated tumors (P < 0.001), a finding that persisted in patients with stage II, III or IV disease, and that remained significant in multivariate analysis (P < 0.01). Consistent results were found for all three age groups. To conclude, CIMP is significantly associated with inferior outcome for colorectal cancer patients, and can stratify the poor prognostic patients with MSS BRAF mutated tumors.
Endothelial-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) is an essential mechanism in the cardiovascular system, for both cardiovascular development and cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). Recent studies indicate that runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) contributes to EndMT and endothelial cell dysfunction. However, the underlying molecular mechanism remains unknown. The present study was designed to investigate the role of RUNX3 in EndMT and endothelial cell function, and to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanism. Human cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (HCMECs) were incubated in strictly controlled hypoxic conditions (1% O2). HCMECs were cultured under normoxic conditions (21% O2), and then moved to a strictly controlled hypoxic environment (1% O2). Under this hypoxic condition, the cells were transfected with the lentiviral vector containing RUNX3 or an empty lentiviral vector for 8 h. After the cells were cultured under hypoxic conditions for 4 days, CD31 and α-smooth muscle actin colocalization were assessed by immunofluorescence microscopy. Transwell migration and tube formation assays were used to examine the migration and angiogenesis ability. RT-qPCR and western blotting were used to determine the expression of molecules involved in EndMT. Hypoxia induced the transition of HCMECs to mesenchymal cells and markedly promoted tube formation and cell migration. Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) and Notch signaling were activated during the hypoxia-induced EndMT of HCMECs. RUNX3 knockdown attenuated EndMT of HCMECs, promoted angiogenic phenotype, and reduced endothelial cell migration. In conclusion, our results showed that RUNX3 knockdown attenuated hypoxia-induced EndMT and reversed endothelial cell functions. RUNX3 is a common downstream target of TGF-β and Notch signaling, and may be a novel therapeutic target for treating CVD mediated by EndMT.
Runt-related transcription factor 1 (RUNX1) is generally considered to function as a tumor suppressor in the development of leukemia, but a growing body of evidence suggests that it has pro-oncogenic properties in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Here we have demonstrated that the antileukemic effect mediated by RUNX1 depletion is highly dependent on a functional p53-mediated cell death pathway. Increased expression of other RUNX family members, including RUNX2 and RUNX3, compensated for the antitumor effect elicited by RUNX1 silencing, and simultaneous attenuation of all RUNX family members as a cluster led to a much stronger antitumor effect relative to suppression of individual RUNX members. Switching off the RUNX cluster using alkylating agent-conjugated pyrrole-imidazole (PI) polyamides, which were designed to specifically bind to consensus RUNX-binding sequences, was highly effective against AML cells and against several poor-prognosis solid tumors in a xenograft mouse model of AML without notable adverse events. Taken together, these results identify a crucial role for the RUNX cluster in the maintenance and progression of cancer cells and suggest that modulation of the RUNX cluster using the PI polyamide gene-switch technology is a potential strategy to control malignancies.
We try to explore the value of aberrant DNA methylation of several cancer-related genes in plasma as non-invasive biomarkers for gastric cancer (GC) and precancerous lesions. By using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction assay we determined the methylation status of three selected genes ZIC1, HOXD10 and RUNX3 in blood samples from patients with GC and precancerous lesions. We discovered that the methylation rate of ZIC1, HOXD10 and RUNX3 increased significantly in the progression of gastric carcinogenesis. Methylation of ZIC1 was associated with positive serum CA19-9, while that of HOXD10 was related to H. pylori status, serum CA19-9 and CEA levels and tumor invasion depth. The Odds ratios (ORs) of ZIC1, HOXD10 and RUNX3 methylation for predicting GC were 4.285 (95%CI: 2.435-7.542), 3.133 (95%CI: 1.700-5.775) and 2.674 (95%CI: 1.441-4.960), while for predicting "gastric cancer and intraepithelial neoplasia" (GnI), the ORs were 12.011 (95%CI: 0.050-28.564), 9.174 (95%CI: 3.220-26.135) and 12.794 (95%CI: 4.115-39.778), respectively. In terms of combined detection of these three genes, the sensitivity was 91.6% for GC and 89.8% for GnI, with the highest Youden index in both GC and GnI determination. Conclusively, combined detection of ZIC1, HOXD10 and RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation might be a promising strategy for early detection of GC and precancerous lesions.
Gastric cancer is a world health problem and depicts the fourth leading mortality cause from malignancy in Mexico. Causation of gastric cancer is not only due to the combined effects of environmental factors and genetic variants. Recent molecular studies have transgressed a number of genes involved in gastric carcinogenesis. The aim of this review is to understand the recent basics of gene expression in the development of the process of gastric carcinogenesis. Genetic variants, polymorphisms, desoxyribonucleic acid methylation, and genes involved in mediating inflammation have been associated with the development of gastric carcinogenesis. Recently, these genes (interleukin 10, Il-17, mucin 1, β-catenin, CDX1, SMAD4, SERPINE1, hypoxia-inducible factor 1 subunit alpha, GSK3β, CDH17, matrix metalloproteinase 7, RUNX3, RASSF1A, TFF1, HAI-2, and COX-2) have been studied in association with oncogenic activation or inactivation of tumor suppressor genes. All these mechanisms have been investigated to elucidate the process of gastric carcinogenesis, as well as their potential use as biomarkers and/or molecular targets to treatment of disease.
This study investigated the effects of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) mediated Notch pathway on the biological behavior of colorectal cancer (CRC) SW260 cells. CRC tissues and para-carcinoma tissues were collected from 182 CRC patients who had undergone surgical treatment between January 2008 and December 2010. Immunohistochemical staining with streptavidin-peroxidase (SP) was used to detect RUNX3, Notch1 and Jagged 1 expression levels. CRC SW260 cells were divided into the following groups: Control group, si-NC group, si-RUNX3 group, DAPT group, si-RUNX3+DAPT group, and si-NC+DAPT group. Expression levels of RUNX3, and Notch signaling related genes were measured by real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blotting in vitro. Besides, MTT, soft agar colony formation, Annexin V-FITC/PI double staining and Transwell were performed to analyze the effects of RUNX3 on cell growth and metastasis. Lower positive expression rate of RUNX3 and higher positive expression rate of Notch1 and Jagged 1 were observed in CRC tissues than those in normal adjacent tissues with a negative correlation, and the expression levels were associated with the differentiation degree, TNM staging, lymph node metastasis and tumor invasion depth (all P<0.05). RUNX3 expression was reduced in si-RUNX3 and si-RUNX3+DAPT group but the expression levels of Notch signaling related genes were markedly increased in si-RUNX3 group or decreased in DAPT and si-NC+DAPT group, as compared with those in the control group (all P<0.05). In addition, the proliferation, colony formation, migration and invasion abilities of SW260 cells were enhanced in si-RUNX3 group but were restricted in DAPT and si-NC+DAPT group, which was contrary to cell apoptosis (all P<0.05). RUNX3 contributes to attenuate the proliferation and metastasis of CRC cells, and promotes cell apoptosis through inhibition of Notch signaling pathway.
T cell receptor (TCR) signaling by MHC class I and II induces thymocytes to acquire cytotoxic and helper fates via the induction of Runx3 and ThPOK transcription factors, respectively. The mechanisms by which TCR signaling is translated into transcriptional programs for each cell fate remain elusive. Here, we show that, in post-selection thymocytes, a genome organizer, SATB1, activates genes for lineage-specifying factors, including ThPOK, Runx3, CD4, CD8, and Treg factor Foxp3, via regulating enhancers in these genes in a locus-specific manner. Indeed, SATB1-deficient thymocytes are partially re-directed into inappropriate T lineages after both MHC class I- and II-mediated selection, and they fail to generate NKT and Treg subsets. Despite its essential role in activating enhancers for the gene encoding ThPOK in TCR-signaled thymocytes, SATB1 becomes dispensable for maintaining ThPOK in CD4+ T cells. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that SATB1 shapes the primary T cell pool by directing lineage-specific transcriptional programs in the thymus.
T-regulatory cells are an upsurge in the tumor microenvironment and induce immune-evasion. CD4+ Treg cells are well characterized whereas the role of CD8+ Tregs in cancer has recently started to crease attention. Here, we report an augmentation CD8+FOXP3+ Tregs in breast tumor microenvironment. FOXP3, the lineage-specific transcription factor, is a dominant regulator of Treg cell development and function. FOXP3 is induced preferentially by divergent signaling in CD4+ Treg cells. But how FOXP3 is induced and maintained in tumor-CD8+ Tregs is the Cinderella of the investigation. We observed that RUNX3, a CD8+ lineage-specific transcription factor, binds at the FOXP3-promoter to induce its transcription. In addition to promoter activation, involvement of cis-elements CNS1 and CNS2 in the transcriptional regulation of FOXP3 was also evident in these cells. SMAD3 binds to CNS1 region and acts as transcription inducer, whereas GATA3 plays a temporal role in the FOXP3 transcription by differential chromatin modification in CNS regions. In CNS1 region, GATA3 acts as a repressor for FOXP3 in naïve CD8+ T cells. Whereas in CD8+ Tregs, GATA3 binds directly at CNS2 region and persuaded the maintenance of FOXP3. Therefore, the intervention of these concerted transcriptional machinery may have a therapeutic potential in immunotherapy of cancer.
BACKGROUND: The CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) in stage III colon cancer (CRC) has been associated with improved survival after treatment with adjuvant irinotecan-based chemotherapy. In this analysis, we determine whether CIMP status in the primary CRC is concordant with the CIMP status of matched metastases in order to determine if assessment of CIMP status in the primary tumor can be used to predict CIMP status of metastatic disease, which is relevant for patient management as well as for understanding the biology of CIMP CRCs.METHODS: We assessed the CIMP status of 70 pairs of primary CRC and matched metastases using a CRC-specific panel of five markers (CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1) where CIMP positive was defined as 3/5 positive markers at a percent methylated reference threshold of ≥10%. Concordance was compared using the Fisher's exact test and P < 0.05 was considered significant.RESULTS: Sixty-nine of the pairs (98.6%) showed concordant CIMP status in the primary tumor and matched metastasis; five (7.0%) of the pairs were concordantly CIMP positive. Only one pair (1.4%) had divergent CIMP status, demonstrating CIMP positivity (4/5 markers positive) in the primary tumor, while the matched metastasis was CIMP negative (0 markers positive).CONCLUSIONS: CIMP status is generally concordant between primary CRCs and matched metastases. Thus, CIMP status in the primary tumor is maintained in matched metastases and can be used to inform CIMP-based therapy options for the metastases.
Promoter methylation reflects in the inactivation of different genes like O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase DNA repair gene and runt-related transcription factor 3, a known tumor suppressor gene in various cancers such as esophageal cancer. The promoter methylation was evaluated for O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase and runt-related transcription factor 3 in CpG, CHH, and CHG context (where H is A, T, or C) by next-generation sequencing. The methylation status was correlated with quantitative messenger RNA expression. In addition, messenger RNA expression was correlated with different risk factors like tobacco, alcohol, betel nut consumption, and smoking habit. CpG methylation of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter had a positive association in the development of esophageal cancer (p < 0.05), whereas runt-related transcription factor 3 promoter methylation showed no significant association (p = 1.0) to develop esophageal cancer. However, the non-CpG methylation, CHH, and CHG were significantly correlated with O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (p < 0.05) and runt-related transcription factor 3 (p < 0.05) promoters in the development of esophageal cancer. The number of cytosine converted to thymine (C→T) in O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase promoter showed a significant correlation between cases and controls (p < 0.05), but in runt-related transcription factor 3 no such significant correlation was observed. Besides, messenger RNA expression was found to be significantly correlated with promoter hypermethylation of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase and runt-related transcription factor 3 in the context of CHG and CHH (p < 0.05). The CpG hypermethylation in O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase showed positive (p < 0.05) association, whereas in runt-related transcription factor 3, it showed contrasting negative association (p = 0.23) with their messenger RNA expression. Tobacco, betel nut consumption, and smoking habits were associated with altered messenger RNA expression of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (p < 0.05) and betel nut consumption and smoking habits were associated with runt-related transcription factor 3 (p < 0.05). There was no significant association between messenger RNA expression of O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase and runt-related transcription factor 3 with alcohol consumption (p = 0.32 and p = 0.15). In conclusion, our results suggest that an aberrant messenger RNA expression may be the outcome of CpG, CHG, and CHH methylation in O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase, whereas outcome of CHG and CHH methylation in runt-related transcription factor 3 promoters along with risk factors such as consumption of tobacco, betel nut, and smoking habits in esophageal cancer from Northeast India.
Chronic exposure to aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) is linked to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To identify differentially methylated genes involved in AFB1-induced cell transformation, we analyzed DNA methylation patterns in immortal human hepatocyte L02 cells expressing an oncogenic H-Ras allele (L02R cells) and AFB1-transformed L02R (L02RT-AFB1) cells by performing genome-wide methylation profiling. We treated L02R cells with 0.3μM AFB1 weekly and observed a transformed phenotype at the 17th week post-treatment. The transformed cells (L02RT-AFB1) could grow in an anchorage independent fashion and form tumors in immunodeficient mice. qRT-PCR was performed to examine whether gene methylation led to a reduction in gene expression of methylated candidate genes. As a result, the expression of the following seven genes including JUNB, RUNX3, NAV1, CXCR4, RARRES1, INTS1, and POLL was down-regulated in transformed L02RT-AFB1 cells. The reduction of gene expression of these genes could be reversed by treatment of 5-azadeoxycytidine. The methylated CpG sites of RUNX3 genes were verified using bisulfite sequencing PCR (BSP) assay. Furthermore, a dynamic change in RUNX3 methylation was observed over the course of AFB1-induced cell transformation, which was corresponded to the alteration of gene expression and the extent of DNA damage. In vitro study showed that methylation of RUNX3 tended to abate in L02R cells treated with AFB1 for a short-term period of time. Notably, hypermethylation of RUNX3 appeared in 70% (14/20) of human hepatocellular carcinomas. Moreover, LINE-1 hypomethylation and dynamic changes of DNMTs, TETs and MeCP2 expression were also observed during AFB1-induced transformation. Taken together, these observations suggest that aberrant methylation of RUNX3 and LINE-1 might be involved in AFB1-induced carcinogenesis.
The mechanisms underlying mesenchymal stem cells' (MSC) suppressive potency are largely unknown. We here show that highly suppressive human adipose tissue-derived MSC (AdMSC) display and induce a differential immunologic profile, upon ongoing AdMSC suppressive activity, promoting: (i) early correlated inhibition of IFN-γ and TNF-α production, along IL-10 increase, (ii) CD73+Foxp3+Treg subset expansion, and (iii) specific correlations between gene expression increases, such as: MMP9 correlated with CCL22, TNF, FASL, RUNX3, and SEMAD4 in AdMSC and, in T cells, MMP9 upregulation correlated with CCR4, IL4 and TBX21, among others, whereas MMP2 correlated with BCL2 and LRRC31. MMP9 emerged as an integrating molecule for both AdMSC and T cells in molecular networks built with our gene expression data, and we confirmed upregulation of MMP9 and MMP2 at the protein level, in AdMSC and T cells, respectively. MMP2/9 inhibition significantly decreased AdMSC suppressive effect, confirming their important role in suppressive acitivity. We conclude that MMP9 and 2 are robust new players involved in human MSC immunoregulatory mechanisms, and the higher suppressive activity correlates to their capacity to trigger a coordinated action of multiple specific molecules, mobilizing various immunoregulatory mechanisms.
Erratum in    Lancet Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2017 Jul;2(7):e4.
The adaptive immune system is dependent on functionally distinct lineages of T cell antigen receptor αβ-expressing T cells that differentiate from a common progenitor in the thymus. CD4+CD8+ progenitor thymocytes undergo selection following interaction with MHC class I and class II molecules bearing peptide self-antigens, giving rise to CD8+ cytotoxic and CD4+ helper or regulatory T cell lineages, respectively. The strict correspondence of CD4 and CD8 expression with distinct cellular phenotypes has made their genes useful surrogates for investigating molecular mechanisms of lineage commitment. Studies of Cd4 and Cd8 transcriptional regulation have uncovered cis-regulatory elements that are critical for mediating epigenetic modifications at distinct stages of development to establish heritable transcriptional programs. In this review, we examine the epigenetic mechanisms involved in Cd4 and Cd8 gene regulation during T cell lineage specification and highlight the features that make this an attractive system for uncovering molecular mechanisms of heritability.
Embryonic development is highly sensitive to xenobiotic toxicity and in utero exposure to environmental toxins affects physiological responses of the progeny. In the United States, the prevalence of allergic asthma (AA) is inexplicably rising and in utero exposure to cigarette smoke increases the risk of AA and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in children and animal models. We reported that gestational exposure to sidestream cigarette smoke (SS), or secondhand smoke, promoted nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-dependent exacerbation of AA and BPD in mice. Recently, perinatal nicotine injections in rats were reported to induce peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ-dependent transgenerational transmission of asthma. Herein, we show that first generation and second generation progeny from gestationally SS-exposed mice exhibit exacerbated AA and BPD that is not dependent on the decrease in peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ levels. Lungs from these mice show strong eosinophilic infiltration, excessive Th2 polarization, marked airway hyperresponsiveness, alveolar simplification, decreased lung compliance, and decreased lung angiogenesis. At the molecular level, these changes are associated with increased RUNX3 expression, alveolar cell apoptosis, and the antiangiogenic factor GAX, and decreased expression of HIF-1α and proangiogenic factors NF-κB and VEGFR2 in the 7-d first generation and second generation lungs. Moreover, the lungs from these mice exhibit lower levels of microRNA (miR)-130a and increased levels of miR-16 and miR-221. These miRs regulate HIF-1α-regulated apoptotic, angiogenic, and immune pathways. Thus the intergenerational effects of gestational SS involve epigenetic regulation of HIF-1α through specific miRs contributing to increased incidence of AA and BPD in the progenies.
Comment in    Immunity. 2017 Mar 21;46(3):340-342.
All human cells are constantly attacked by endogenous and exogenous agents that damage the integrity of their genomes. Yet, the ensuing damage is mostly fixed and very rarely gives rise to genomic defects that promote cancer formation. This is due to the co-ordinated functioning of DNA repair proteins and checkpoint mechanisms that accurately detect and repair DNA damage to ensure genomic fitness. According to accumulating evidence, the RUNX family of transcription factors participate in the maintenance of genomic stability through transcriptional and non-transcriptional mechanisms. RUNX1 and RUNX3 maintain genomic integrity in a transcriptional manner by regulating the transactivation of apoptotic genes following DNA damage via complex formation with p53. RUNX1 and RUNX3 also maintain genomic integrity in a non-transcriptional manner during interstand crosslink repair by promoting the recruitment of FANCD2 to sites of DNA damage. Since RUNX genes are frequently aberrant in human cancer, here, we argue that one of the major modes by which RUNX inactivation promotes neoplastic transformation is through the loss of genomic integrity. In particular, there exists strong evidence that leukemic RUNX1-fusions such as RUNX1-ETO disrupt genomic integrity and induce a "mutator" phenotype during the early stages of leukemogenesis. Consistent with increased DNA damage accumulation induced by RUNX1-ETO, PARP inhibition has been shown to be an effective synthetic-lethal therapeutic approach against RUNX1-ETO expressing leukemias. Here, in this chapter we will examine current evidence suggesting that the tumor suppressor potential of RUNX proteins can be at least partly attributed to their ability to ensure high-fidelity DNA repair and thus prevent mutational accumulation during cancer progression.
During the past two decades, Runt domain transcription factors (RUNX1, 2, and 3) have been investigated in regard to their function, structural elements, genetic variants, and roles in normal development and pathological conditions. The Runt family proteins are evolutionarily conserved from Drosophila to mammals, emphasizing their physiological importance. A hypoxic microenvironment caused by insufficient blood supply is frequently observed in developing organs, growing tumors, and tissues that become ischemic due to impairment or blockage of blood vessels. During embryonic development and tumor growth, hypoxia triggers a stress response that overcomes low-oxygen conditions by increasing erythropoiesis and angiogenesis and triggering metabolic changes. This review briefly introduces hypoxic conditions and cellular responses, as well as angiogenesis and its related signaling pathways, and then describes our current knowledge on the functions and molecular mechanisms of Runx family proteins in hypoxic responses, especially in angiogenesis.
The Runt-domain (RD) transcription factors (RUNX genes) are an important family of transcriptional mediators that interact with a variety of proteins including the Hippo pathway effector proteins, YAP and TAZ. In this chapter we focus on two examples of RUNX-TAZ/YAP interactions that have particular significance in human cancer. Specifically, recent evidence has found that RUNX2 cooperates with TAZ to promote epithelial to mesenchymal transition mediated by the soluble N-terminal ectodomain of E-Cadherin, sE-Cad. Contrastingly, in gastric cancer, RUNX3 acts as a tumor suppressor via inhibition of the YAP-TEAD complex and disruption of downstream YAP-mediated gene transcription and the oncogenic phenotype. The reports highlighted in this chapter add to the growing repertoire of instances of Hippo pathway crosstalk that have been identified in cancer. Elucidation of these increasingly complex interactions may help to identify novel strategies to target Hippo pathway dysregulation in human cancer.
In this chapter we summarize the pros and cons of the notion that Runx3 is a major tumor suppressor gene (TSG). Inactivation of TSGs in normal cells provides a viability/growth advantage that contributes cell-autonomously to cancer. More than a decade ago it was suggested that RUNX3 is involved in gastric cancer development, a postulate extended later to other epithelial cancers portraying RUNX3 as a major TSG. However, evidence that Runx3 is not expressed in normal gastric and other epithelia has challenged the RUNX3-TSG paradigm. In contrast, RUNX3 is overexpressed in a significant fraction of tumor cells in various human epithelial cancers and its overexpression in pancreatic cancer cells promotes their migration, anchorage-independent growth and metastatic potential. Moreover, recent high-throughput quantitative genome-wide studies on thousands of human samples of various tumors and new investigations of the role of Runx3 in mouse cancer models have unequivocally demonstrated that RUNX3 is not a bona fide cell-autonomous TSG. Importantly, accumulating data demonstrated that RUNX3 functions in control of immunity and inflammation, thereby indirectly influencing epithelial tumor development.
The RUNX family transcription factors are critical regulators of development and frequently dysregulated in cancer. RUNX3, the least well characterized of the three family members, has been variously described as a tumor promoter or suppressor, sometimes with conflicting results and opinions in the same cancer and likely reflecting a complex role in oncogenesis. We recently identified RUNX3 expression as a crucial determinant of the predilection for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) cells to proliferate locally or promulgate throughout the body. High RUNX3 expression induces the production and secretion of soluble factors that support metastatic niche construction and stimulates PDA cells to migrate and invade, while simultaneously suppressing proliferation through increased expression of cell cycle regulators such as CDKN1A/p21 WAF1/CIP1 . RUNX3 expression and function are coordinated by numerous transcriptional and post-translational inputs, and interactions with diverse cofactors influence whether the resulting RUNX3 complexes enact tumor suppressive or tumor promoting programs. Understanding these exquisitely context-dependent tumor cell behaviors has the potential to inform clinical decision-making including the most appropriate timing and sequencing of local vs. systemic therapies.
RUNX1 and RUNX3 are the main RUNX genes expressed in B lymphocytes. Both are expressed throughout B-cell development and play key roles at certain key developmental transitions. The tumour-associated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) has potent B-cell transforming ability and manipulates RUNX3 and RUNX1 transcription through novel mechanisms to control B cell growth. In contrast to resting mature B cells where RUNX1 expression is high, in EBV-infected cells RUNX1 levels are low and RUNX3 levels are high. Downregulation of RUNX1 in these cells results from cross-regulation by RUNX3 and serves to relieve RUNX1-mediated growth repression. RUNX3 is upregulated by the EBV transcription factor (TF) EBNA2 and represses RUNX1 transcription through RUNX sites in the RUNX1 P1 promoter. Recent analysis revealed that EBNA2 activates RUNX3 transcription through an 18 kb upstream super-enhancer in a manner dependent on the EBNA2 and Notch DNA-binding partner RBP-J. This super-enhancer also directs RUNX3 activation by two further RBP-J-associated EBV TFs, EBNA3B and 3C. Counter-intuitively, EBNA2 also hijacks RBP-J to target a super-enhancer region upstream of RUNX1 to maintain some RUNX1 expression in certain cell backgrounds, although the dual functioning EBNA3B and 3C proteins limit this activation. Interestingly, the B-cell genome binding sites of EBV TFs overlap extensively with RUNX3 binding sites and show enrichment for RUNX motifs. Therefore in addition to B-cell growth manipulation through the long-range control of RUNX transcription, EBV may also use RUNX proteins as co-factors to deregulate the transcription of many B cell genes during immortalisation.
Runt-related (Runx) transcription factors play essential roles during development and adult tissue homeostasis and are responsible for several human diseases. They regulate a variety of biological mechanisms in numerous cell lineages. Recent years have seen significant progress in our understanding of the functions performed by Runx proteins in the developing and postnatal mammalian nervous system. In both central and peripheral nervous systems, Runx1 and Runx3 display remarkably specific expression in mostly non-overlapping groups of postmitotic neurons. In the central nervous system, Runx1 is involved in the development of selected motor neurons controlling neural circuits mediating vital functions such as chewing, swallowing, breathing, and locomotion. In the peripheral nervous system, Runx1 and Runx3 play essential roles during the development of sensory neurons involved in circuits mediating pain, itch, thermal sensation and sense of relative position. Runx1 and Runx3 orchestrate complex gene expression programs controlling neuronal subtype specification and axonal connectivity. Runx1 is also important in the olfactory system, where it regulates the progenitor-to-neuron transition in undifferentiated neural progenitor cells in the olfactory epithelium as well as the proliferation and developmental maturation of specific glial cells termed olfactory ensheathing cells. Moreover, upregulated Runx expression is associated with brain injury and disease. Increasing knowledge of the functions of Runx proteins in the developing and postnatal nervous system is therefore expected to improve our understanding of nervous system development, homeostasis and disease.
Runx2 is the most upstream transcription factor essential for osteoblast differentiation. It regulates the expression of Sp7, the protein of which is a crucial transcription factor for osteoblast differentiation, as well as that of bone matrix genes including Spp1, Ibsp, and Bglap2. Runx2 is also required for chondrocyte maturation, and Runx3 has a redundant function with Runx2 in chondrocyte maturation. Runx2 regulates the expression of Col10a1, Spp1, Ibsp, and Mmp13 in chondrocytes. It also inhibits chondrocytes from acquiring the phenotypes of permanent cartilage chondrocytes. It regulates chondrocyte proliferation through the regulation of Ihh expression. Runx2 enhances osteoclastogenesis by regulating Rankl. Cbfb, which is a co-transcription factor for Runx family proteins, plays an important role in skeletal development by stabilizing Runx family proteins. In Cbfb isoforms, Cbfb1 is more potent than Cbfb2 in Runx2-dependent transcriptional regulation; however, the expression level of Cbfb2 is three-fold higher than that of Cbfb1, demonstrating the requirement of Cbfb2 in skeletal development. The expression of Runx2 in osteoblasts is regulated by a 343-bp enhancer located upstream of the P1 promoter. This enhancer is activated by an enhanceosome composed of Dlx5/6, Mef2, Tcf7, Ctnnb1, Sox5/6, Smad1, and Sp7. Thus, Runx2 is a multifunctional transcription factor that is essential for skeletal development, and Cbfb regulates skeletal development by modulating the stability and transcriptional activity of Runx family proteins.
The RUNX family of transcription factors plays important roles in tissue-specific gene expression. Many of their functions depend on specific post-translational modifications (PTMs), and in this review, we describe how PTMs govern RUNX DNA binding, transcriptional activity, protein stability, cellular localization, and protein-protein interactions. We also report how these processes can be disrupted in disease settings. Finally, we describe how alterations of RUNX1, or the enzymes that catalyze its post-translational modifications, contribute to hematopoietic malignancies.
The present study aimed to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying osteosarcoma metastasis. Microarray dataset GSE49003 was downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database and used for analysis. Raw expression data were preprocessed using the preprocessCore, impute and aggregate packages in R. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between metastatic and non‑metastatic osteosarcoma cell lines were screened using the limma package following exclusion of DEGs with a higher significance in intra‑groups compared with inter‑groups using the genefilter package. Enrichment analysis was performed on DEGs using TargetMine, followed by identification of transcription factors (TFs) and microRNAs (miRNAs). Regulatory networks were constructed using Cytoscape software. A total of 248 upregulated and 208 downregulated genes were obtained. The upregulated genes were significantly enriched in the following pathways: Downregulation of transforming growth factor β (TGF‑β) receptor signaling and TGF‑β receptor signaling activates SMADs; these upregulated genes included protein phosphatase 1, regulatory subunit 15A, transforming growth factor, β receptor II and ubiquitin carboxyl‑terminal hydrolase L5. In addition, some upregulated genes were enriched in lung cancer disease ontology, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), insulin‑like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 3 (IGF2BP3), runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and secreted frizzled‑related protein 1 (SFRP1). Conversely, the downregulated genes were significantly enriched in extracellular matrix‑associated pathways or functions, such as collagen, type XII, α 1; collagen, type I, α 1; collagen, type IV, α 1; and collagen, type V, α 1. In addition, some downregulated genes were significantly enriched in the TGF‑β signaling pathway, including bone morphogenetic protein 4, inhibitor of DNA binding 3 and SMAD family member 6. A total of 10 TFs and 84 miRNAs (e.g. miR-21-5p) were deemed to be associated with DEGs. In conclusion, DEGs enriched in the downregulation of TGF‑β receptor signaling, TGF‑β receptor signaling activates SMADs and TGF‑β signaling pathways, as well as the extracellular matrix may be implicated in the progression of osteosarcoma metastasis. Dysregulated EGFR, IGF2BP3, RUNX3 and SFRP1 may contribute to the metastasis of osteosarcoma to the lungs. In addition, screened TFs and miR-21-5p may be associated with metastasis via target genes.
Erratum in    Nat Commun. 2018 May 25;9:16204.
Provirus integration site for Moloney murine leukemia virus 1 (Pim-1) has proved to be an oncogene and it is known that to depress Pim-1 activity may be a novel oncological treatment strategy. SGI-1776, a small molecule, is the first clinically tested inhibitor of the Pim kinase family. Here, we aimed to explore the effect of SGI-1776 on salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma (SACC). Expression of Pim-1 was confirmed in SACC and control tissues by qRT-PCR. After SGI-1776 treatment, the Pim-1 expressions and Pim-1 kinase activity in both SACC-83 and SACC-LM cell lines were measured. Cell proliferation, cell invasion, cell cycle, apoptosis and mitochondrial membrane potential were analyzed. Also, the expression of FOXO3a, p-FOXO3a, RUNX3, Bcl-2, BAD, p-BAD, Bim and p-Bim were detected by Western blot. The results showed that Pim-1 was significantly overexpressed in SACC tissues. SGI-1776 down-regulated the Pim-1 expression, inhibited Pim-1 kinase activity, reduced cell proliferation, decreased invasive ability, increased caspase-3 activity and induced apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and mitochondrial depolarization. Reduced expression was also seen in p-FOXO3a, RUNX3, Bcl-2, p-BAD and p-Bim, whereas no significant changes were observed from FOXO3a, BAD and Bim. These results confirm the pivotal role of Pim-1 in SACC and suggest that targeting Pim-1 kinase signal pathway by SGI-1776 might be a promising therapeutic modality for SACC.
Cbx3/HP1γ is a histone reader whose function in the immune system is not completely understood. Here, we demonstrate that in CD8+ T cells, Cbx3/HP1γ insufficiency leads to chromatin remodeling accompanied by enhanced Prf1, Gzmb and Ifng expression. In tumors obtained from Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient mice or wild type mice treated with Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient CD8+ T cells, there is an increase of CD8+ effector T cells expressing the stimulatory receptor Klrk1/NKG2D, a decrease in CD4+ CD25+ FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Treg cells) as well as CD25+ CD4+ T cells expressing the inhibitory receptor CTLA4. Together these changes in the tumor immune environment may have mitigated tumor burden in Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient mice or wild type mice treated with Cbx3/HP1γ-insufficient CD8+ T cells. These findings suggest that targeting Cbx3/HP1γ can represent a rational therapeutic approach to control growth of solid tumors.
Erratum for    Oncol Rep. 2016 May;35(5):2576-82.
The Runx family of transcription factors (Runx1, Runx2, and Runx3) are highly conserved and encode proteins involved in a variety of cell lineages, including blood and blood-related cell lineages, during developmental and adult stages of life. They perform activation and repressive functions in the regulation of gene expression. The requirement for Runx1 in the normal hematopoietic development and its dysregulation through chromosomal translocations and loss-of-function mutations as found in acute myeloid leukemias highlight the importance of this transcription factor in the healthy blood system. Whereas another review will focus on the role of Runx factors in leukemias, this review will provide an overview of the normal regulation and function of Runx factors in hematopoiesis and focus particularly on the biological effects of Runx1 in the generation of hematopoietic stem cells. We will present the current knowledge of the structure and regulatory features directing lineage-specific expression of Runx genes, the models of embryonic and adult hematopoietic development that provide information on their function, and some of the mechanisms by which they affect hematopoietic function.
OBJECTIVES: We previously reported loss of heterozygosity on 1p in chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). We analyzed promoter methylation and mutation of tumor suppressor genes on 1p36 in CML.METHODS: We performed methylation-specific PCR (MS-PCR) analysis of the PRDM2, RUNX3, and TP73 genes in 61 patients with CML (43 chronic phase, CP; two accelerated phase; and 16 blast crisis, BC). Oxidative MS-PCR, PCR-single-strand conformation polymorphism, and real-time reverse transcriptase PCR were also analyzed. K-562 cells were grown in the presence of 5-Aza-dC and trichostatin A.RESULTS: Methylation of the PRDM2, RUNX3, and TP73 genes was detected in 24/60 (40%), 21/61 (34%), and 28/60 (47%) patients, respectively. Methylation of all three genes was detected in 19/59 (32%) patients. Methylation was more frequent in BC than in CP. Oxidative MS-PCR analysis detected 5-mC in the PRDM2, RUNX3, and TP73 genes in 10/22 (45%), 15/21 (71%), and 16/26 (62%) samples with methylation detected by MS-PCR, respectively. Decreased expression was observed in several samples with methylation, while no mutations were found in the genes. Treatment of K-562 cells induced growth suppression, demethylation, and reexpression of the PRDM2 and RUNX3 genes.CONCLUSION: Multiple tumor suppressor genes on 1p were inactivated in CML by methylation.
RUNX3, runt-domain transcription factor, is a master regulator of gene expression in major developmental pathways. It acts as a tumor suppressor in many cancers but is oncogenic in certain tumors. We observed upregulation of RUNX3 mRNA and protein expression in nasal-type extranodal natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma (NKTL) patient samples and NKTL cell lines compared to normal NK cells. RUNX3 silenced NKTL cells showed increased apoptosis and reduced cell proliferation. Potential binding sites for MYC were identified in the RUNX3 enhancer region. Chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR revealed binding activity between MYC and RUNX3. Co-transfection of the MYC expression vector with RUNX3 enhancer reporter plasmid resulted in activation of RUNX3 enhancer indicating that MYC positively regulates RUNX3 transcription in NKTL cell lines. Treatment with a small-molecule MYC inhibitor (JQ1) caused significant downregulation of MYC and RUNX3, leading to apoptosis in NKTL cells. The growth inhibition resulting from depletion of MYC by JQ1 was rescued by ectopic MYC expression. In summary, our study identified RUNX3 overexpression in NKTL with functional oncogenic properties. We further delineate that MYC may be an important upstream driver of RUNX3 upregulation and since MYC is upregulated in NKTL, further study on the employment of MYC inhibition as a therapeutic strategy is warranted.
OBJECTIVE: To study the expression of RUNX3 in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues and its correlation with microvessel density (MVD), and investigate the clinical pathological prognostic significance of RUNX3 and MVD in patients with colorectal cancer.METHODS: The expression value of RUNX3 and MVD in 70 specimens' colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry staining technique. The correlation between their expression and the clinicopathologic features was also investigated.RESULTS: The expression value of RUNX3 and the positive rates of RUNX3 in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues were 3.25 ± 1.14 and 25.71% (18/70). The expression value of MVD in colorectal adenocarcinoma tissues was 13.14 ± 3.23. Expression of RUNX3 and MVD value were correlated with CEA, serosal invasion, liver metastasis, lymph node metastasis, and TNM stage (P < 0.01). The expression value of RUNX3 had negative correlations with that of MVD.CONCLUSIONS: The high expression of RUNX3 could inhibit tumor microvascular generation in order to have negative control response on invasion and distant metastasis.
Although 13cRA is involved in the regulation of cellular proliferation and differentiation, its physiological roles in chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation still remain unknown. Here, we showed that 13cRA could induce the proliferation of sika deer antler chondrocytes and expression of Ccnd3 and Cdk6. Administration of 13cRA to antler chondrocytes resulted in an obvious increase in the expression of chondrocyte marker Col II and hypertrophic chondrocyte marker Col X. Silencing of Crabp2 expression by specific siRNA could prevent the 13cRA-induced up-regulation of Col X, whereas overexpression of Crabp2 showed the opposite effects. Further study found that Crabp2 mediated the regulation of 13cRA on the expression of Runx3 which was highly expressed in the antler cartilage and inhibited the differentiation of antler chondrocytes. Moreover, attenuation of Runx3 expression greatly raised 13cRA-induced chondrocyte differentiation. Simultaneously, 13cRA could stimulate the expression of Cyp26a1 and Cyp26b1 in the antler chondrocytes. Inhibition of Cyp26a1 and/or Cyp26b1 reinforced the effects of 13cRA on the expression of Col X and Runx3, while overexpression of Cyp26b1 rendered the antler chondrocytes hyposensitive to 13cRA. Collectively, 13cRA may play an important role in the differentiation of antler chondrocytes through targeting Runx3. Crabp2 enhances the effects of 13cRA on chondrocyte differentiation, while Cyp26a1 and Cyp26b1 weaken the sensitivity of antler chondrocytes to 13cRA.
The TGF-β signaling pathway is involved in regulation of cell growth, angiogenesis, and metastasis. We test the hypothesis that genetic variation in the TGF-β signaling pathway alters miRNA expression.We use data from 1188 colorectal cancer cases to evaluate associations between 80 SNPs in 21 genes.Seven variants eIF4E rs12498533, NFκB1 rs230510, TGFB1 rs4803455, TGFBR1 rs1571590 and rs6478974, SMAD3 rs3743343, and RUNX1 rs8134179 were associated with expression level of miRNAs in normal colorectal mucosa. RUNX2 rs12333172 and BMPR1B rs13134042 were associated with miRNAs in normal colon mucosa; eIF4EBP3 rs250425, SMAD3 rs12904944, SMAD7 rs3736242, and PTEN rs532678 were associated with miRNA expression in normal rectal mucosa. Evaluation of the differential expression between carcinoma and normal mucosa showed that SMAD3 rs12708491 and rs2414937, NFκB1 rs230510 and rs3821958, and RUNX3 rs6672420 were associated with several miRNAs for colorectal carcinoma. Evaluation of site-specific differential miRNA expression showed that BMPR1B rs2120834, BMPR2 rs2228545, and eIF4EBP3 rs250425 were associated with differential miRNA expression in colon tissue and SMAD3 rs12901071, rs1498506, and rs2414937, BMPR2 rs2228545, and RUNX2 rs2819854, altered differential miRNA expression in rectal tissue.These data support the importance of the TGF-β signaling pathway to the carcinogenic process, possibly through their influence on miRNA expression levels.
Toluene diisocyanate (TDI) is a potent low molecular weight chemical sensitizer and a leading cause of chemical-induced occupational asthma. The regulatory potential of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been recognized in a variety of disease states, including allergic disease; however, the roles of miRNAs in chemical sensitization are largely unknown. In a previous work, increased expression of multiple miRNAs during TDI sensitization was observed and several putative mRNA targets identified for these miRNAs were directly related to regulatory T-cell (Treg) differentiation and function including Foxp3 and Runx3. In this work, we show that miR-210 expression is increased in the mouse draining lymph node (dLN) and Treg subsets following dermal TDI sensitization. Alterations in dLN mRNA and protein expression of Treg related genes/putative miR-210 targets (foxp3, runx3, ctla4, and cd25) were observed at multiple time points following TDI exposure and in ex vivo systems. A Treg suppression assay, including a miR-210 mimic, was utilized to investigate the suppressive ability of Tregs. Cells derived from TDI sensitized mice treated with miR-210 mimic had less expression of miR-210 compared to the acetone control suggesting other factors, such as additional miRNAs, might be involved in the regulation of the functional capabilities of these cells. These novel findings indicate that miR-210 may have an inhibitory role in Treg function during TDI sensitization. Because the functional roles of miRNAs have not been previously elucidated in a model of chemical sensitization, these data contribute to the understanding of the potential immunologic mechanisms of chemical induced allergic disease.
High recurrence and lower survival rates in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) are associated with its bone invasion. We identified the oncogenic role of RUNX3 during bone invasion by OSCC. Tumor growth and the generation of osteolytic lesions were significantly inhibited in mice that were subcutaneously inoculated with RUNX3-knockdown human OSCC cells. RUNX3 knockdown enhanced TGF-β-induced growth arrest and inhibited OSCC cell migration and invasion in the absence or presence of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β), a major growth factor abundant in the bone microenvironment. RUNX3 knockdown induced cell cycle arrest at the G1 and G2 phases and promoted G2 arrest by TGF-β in Ca9.22 OSCC cells. RUNX3 knockdown also inhibited both the basal and TGF-β-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition by increasing E-cadherin expression and suppressing the nuclear translocation of β-catenin. In addition, the expression and TGF-β-mediated induction of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP), one of key osteolytic factors, was blocked in RUNX3-knockdown OSCC cells. Furthermore, treating human osteoblastic cells with conditioned medium derived from RUNX3-knockdown OSCC cells reduced the receptor activator of nuclear factor-kappaB ligand (RANKL)/osteoprotegerin ratio compared with treatment with conditioned medium from RUNX3-expressing cells. These findings indicate that RUNX3 expression in OSCC cells contributes to their bone invasion and the resulting osteolysis by inducing their malignant behaviors and production of osteolytic factors. RUNX3 alone or in combination with TGF-β and PTHrP may be a useful predictive biomarker and therapeutic target for bone invasion by oral cancer.
Aging is associated with a progressive loss of the CD28 costimulatory molecule in CD4+ lymphocytes (CD28null T cells), which is accompanied by the acquisition of new biological and functional properties that give rise to an impaired immune response. The regulatory mechanisms that govern the appearance and function of this cell subset during aging and in several associated inflammatory disorders remain controversial. Here, we present the whole-genome DNA methylation and gene expression profiles of CD28null T cells and its CD28+ counterpart. A comparative analysis revealed that 296 genes are differentially methylated between the two cell subsets. A total of 160 genes associated with cytotoxicity (e.g. GRZB, TYROBP, and RUNX3) and cytokine/chemokine signaling (e.g. CX3CR1, CD27, and IL-1R) are demethylated in CD28null T cells, while 136 de novo-methylated genes matched defects in the TCR signaling pathway (e.g. ITK, TXK, CD3G, and LCK). TCR-landscape analysis confirmed that CD28null T cells have an oligo/monoclonal expansion over the polyclonal background of CD28+ T cells, but feature a Vβ family repertoire specific to each individual. We reported that CD28null T cells show a preactivation state characterized by a higher level of expression of inflammasome-related genes that leads to the release of IL-1β when activated. Overall, our results demonstrate that CD28null T cells have a unique DNA methylation landscape, which is associated with differences in gene expression, contributing to the functionality of these cells. Understanding these epigenetic regulatory mechanisms could suggest novel therapeutic strategies to prevent the accumulation and activation of these cells during aging.
RUNX3, a tumor suppressor, is suppressed in various cancers by abnormal epigenetic changes. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) can deacetylate the lysine residues of RUNX3, followed by degradation via a ubiquitin-mediated pathway. Inhibition of HDAC leads to functional restoration of the RUNX3 protein by epigenetic expression and RUNX3 protein stabilization. We previously reported a series of HDAC inhibitors that restored RUNX3 function. In the present study, we introduced an alkenyl linker group to pyridine-based HDAC inhibitors to improve their potencies and chemical properties. This alkenyl linker made the compounds more rigid, facilitating a better fit than alkyl moieties to the active site of HDAC proteins. Most compounds in this series exhibited potent RUNX activities, HDAC inhibitory activities, and inhibitory activities towards the growth of human cancer cell lines. Notably, one of these derivatives, (E)-3-(1-cinnamyl-2-oxo-1,2-dihydropyridin-3-yl)-N-hydroxyacrylamide (7k), showed excellent properties in a microsomal stability study, in a xenograft study, and in an in vivo pharmacokinetic evaluation. Modulation of RUNX3 therefore results in highly potent and orally available anticancer chemotherapeutic agents.
The Runx3 transcription factor is essential for development and diversification of the dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) TrkC sensory neurons. In Runx3-deficient mice, developing TrkC neurons fail to extend central and peripheral afferents, leading to cell death and disruption of the stretch reflex circuit, resulting in severe limb ataxia. Despite its central role, the mechanisms underlying the spatiotemporal expression specificities of Runx3 in TrkC neurons were largely unknown. Here we first defined the genomic transcription unit encompassing regulatory elements (REs) that mediate the tissue-specific expression of Runx3. Using transgenic mice expressing BAC reporters spanning the Runx3 locus, we discovered three REs-dubbed R1, R2, and R3-that cross-talk with promoter-2 (P2) to drive TrkC neuron-specific Runx3 transcription. Deletion of single or multiple elements either in the BAC transgenics or by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated endogenous ablation established the REs' ability to promote and/or repress Runx3 expression in developing sensory neurons. Our analysis reveals that an intricate combinatorial interplay among the three REs governs Runx3 expression in distinct subtypes of TrkC neurons while concomitantly extinguishing its expression in non-TrkC neurons. These findings provide insights into the mechanism regulating cell type-specific expression and subtype diversification of TrkC neurons in developing DRGs.
Runt domain transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a transcription factor that functions as a tumor suppressor. RUNX3 is frequently inactivated by epigenetic silencing or its protein mislocalization (cytoplasmic localization) in many cancer types. This study investigated whether oxidative stress induces redistribution of RUNX3 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. The cytoplasmic localization of RUNX3 was associated with oxidative stress-induced RUNX3 phosphorylation at tyrosine residues via SRC activation. Moreover, oxidative stress increased expression of histone deacetylases (HDACs). RUNX3 phosphorylation and SRC expression induced by oxidative stress were inhibited by knockdown of HDAC1, restoring the nuclear localization of RUNX3 under oxidative stress. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that HDAC1- and SRC-mediated phosphorylation of RUNX3 induced by oxidative stress is associated with the cytoplasmic localization of RUNX3 and can lead to RUNX3 inactivation and carcinogenesis. J. Cell. Physiol. 232: 1914-1921, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Psoriasis has been intensively studied recently and numerous risk-associated variants within 44 susceptibility loci have been discovered. Estimates suggest that the genetic contribution to PsA (psoriatic arthritis) may be higher than PsV (psoriasis vulgaris) yet most work has been done on the latter due to its greater population prevalence. To test whether variants in the PsV-associated loci are also related to PsA, we performed a candidate loci association study in Chinese population. Genotyping was performed by MassARRAY platform (Sequenom, San Diego, CA, USA). 50 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with reported evidences for association with psoriasis were genotyped in 465 PsA cases and 421 healthy controls collected from Chinese population. Data handling, quality control and association analysis were performed using PLINK software (v. 1.07). SNPs in 5q33.3, 1p36 and 1q21.3 showed convincing evidence of association (rs7709212, P = 4.82 × 10-5, rs7536201, P = 3.89 × 10-4, rs1886734 P = 6.81 × 10-4, respectively). IL12B, RUNX3 and LCE were candidate genes in these regions. The combination of SNPs rs1886734 and rs7709212 was the best predictive model for PsA as compared to the control in test for gene-gene interaction. In conclusion, we assessed 36 non-HLA psoriasis susceptibility loci in PsA cohort, confirmed the association of three loci with PsA, these findings may help in developing possible genetic markers to predict PsA.
Author information:(1)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006; Department of Cardiology, Loudi Central Hospital, Loudi 417000, China.(2)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.*Corresponding author, E-mail: libingong08@163.com.(3)Department of Cardiology, Loudi Central Hospital, Loudi 417000, China.(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, Loudi Central Hospital, Loudi 417000, China.(5)Department of Cardiology, First Affiliated Hospital, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
ChIP-seq performed on lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), expressing epitope-tagged EBNA3A, EBNA3B or EBNA3C from EBV-recombinants, revealed important principles of EBNA3 binding to chromatin. When combined with global chromatin looping data, EBNA3-bound loci were found to have a singular character, each directly associating with either EBNA3-repressed or EBNA3-activated genes, but not with both. EBNA3A and EBNA3C showed significant association with repressed and activated genes. Significant direct association for EBNA3B loci could only be shown with EBNA3B-repressed genes. A comparison of EBNA3 binding sites with known transcription factor binding sites in LCL GM12878 revealed substantial co-localization of EBNA3s with RUNX3-a protein induced by EBV during B cell transformation. The beta-subunit of core binding factor (CBFβ), that heterodimerizes with RUNX3, could co-immunoprecipitate robustly EBNA3B and EBNA3C, but only weakly EBNA3A. Depletion of either RUNX3 or CBFβ with lentivirus-delivered shRNA impaired epitope-tagged EBNA3B and EBNA3C binding at multiple regulated gene loci, indicating a requirement for CBF heterodimers in EBNA3 recruitment during target-gene regulation. ShRNA-mediated depletion of CBFβ in an EBNA3C-conditional LCL confirmed the role of CBF in the regulation of EBNA3C-induced and -repressed genes. These results reveal an important role for RUNX3/CBF during B cell transformation and EBV latency that was hitherto unexplored.
AIM OF THE STUDY: To delineate the underlying mechanism of microRNA-145 modulate the balance of Th1/Th2 via targeting RUNX3 in asthma patients.MATERIALS AND METHODS: Peripheral blood samples were collected from asthma patients and healthy controls. CD4+ T cells were isolated and cultured. Using quantitative PCR detect, the level of microRNA-145 and RUNX3 mRNA level in the CD4+ T cells from asthma patients and healthy controls, meanwhile, western blot was used to detect the RUNX3 protein level. Th1 or Th2 related cytokines were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay was performed to confirm the correlation between microRNA-145 and RUNX3. MicroRNA-145 mimic or inhibitor was transfected in the CD4+ T cells and the changes of RUNX3 level, Th1 or Th2 related cytokines and the percentage of Th1 and Th2 were observed after transfection.RESULTS: MicroRNA-145 level of CD4+ T cells was higher with a lower RUNX3 expression in asthma patients. There is negative correlation between microRNA-145 and RUNX3. Th2 hyperactivity and Th1 deficiency was detected in the CD4+ T cells of asthma patients. Dual-Luciferase Reporter Assay has shown that RUNX3 is a target of microRNA. Up-regulation or down-regulation of miR-145 level caused RUNX3 expression changes in CD4+ T cells and influence the related cytokines. Inhibition of microRNA-145 may reverse the imbalance of Th1/Th2 in asthma patients.CONCLUSION: MicroRNA-145 could regulate the balance of Th1/Th2 through targeting the RUNX3 in asthma patients. MicroRNA-145 and RUNX3 may be used as biomarkers or targets in the diagnosis or therapy of asthma.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Helicobacter pylori infection induces aberrant DNA methylation in gastric mucosa. We evaluated the long-term effect of H. pylori eradication on promotor CpG island hypermethylation in gastric carcinogenesis.METHODS: H. pylori-positive patients with gastric adenoma or early gastric cancer who underwent endoscopic resection were enrolled. According to H. pylori eradication after endoscopic resection, the participants were randomly assigned to H. pylori eradication or non-eradication group. H. pylori-negative gastric mucosa from normal participants provided the normal control. CpG island hypermethylation of tumor-related genes (p16, CDH1, and RUNX-3) was evaluated by quantitative MethyLight assay in non-tumorous gastric mucosa. The gene methylation rate and median values of hypermethylation were compared after one year by H. pylori status.RESULTS: In H. pylori-positive patients, hypermethylation of p16 was found in 80.6%, of CDH1 in 80.6%, and of RUNX-3 in 48.4%. This is significantly higher than normal control (p16, 10%; CDH1, 44%; RUNX-3, 16%) (p<0.05). In the H. pylori eradication group, methylation rates of p16 and CDH1 decreased in 58.1% and 61.3% of the patients, and the median values of hypermethylation were significantly lower at one year compared with the non-eradication group. However, RUNX-3 hypermethylation did not differ significantly at one year after H. pylori eradication. The non-eradication group hypermethylation did not change after one year.CONCLUSIONS: H. pylori infection was associated with promotor hypermethylation of genes in gastric carcinogenesis, and H. pylori eradication might reverse p16 and CDH1 hypermethylation.
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is a highly aggressive malignant cancer and accounts for 1% to 2% of all malignancies diagnosed worldwide. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), an important tumor suppressor, is known to related to lymph node metastasis and the development of LSCC. However, the biological roles and potential mechanisms RUNX3 expression was not well understood. In this study, we reported that the RUNX3 was significantly downregulated and highly methylated in LSCC compared with their matched normal. The enforced expression of RUNX3 inhibited LSCC cell migration, invasion, and proliferation, whereas the inhibition of RUNX3 did the opposite. We identified that RUNX3 was regulated by miR-148a-3p and found that the expression level of miR-148-3p was significantly decreased and positively related with the expression of RUNX3 in LSCC. We also identified that DNA methyltransferase enzyme DNA (cytosine-5-)-methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) was targeted by miR-148a-3p in LSCC. The knockdown of DNMT1 promoted the expression of RUNX3 and inhibited migration, invasion, and proliferation in LSCC cells. In summary, our study demonstrated that miR-148a-3p may regulate RUNX3 expression through the modulation of DNMT1-dependent DNA methylation in LSCC, providing a novel target and a potential therapeutic pathway against LSCC. LSCC is a highly aggressive malignant cancer and accounts for 1% to 2% of all malignancies diagnosed worldwide. In this study, we reported that RUNX3, an important tumor suppressor, was significantly downregulated and highly methylated in LSCC compared with their matched normal. The overexpression of RUNX3 inhibited LSCC cell migration, invasion, and proliferation, whereas the inhibition of RUNX3 did the opposite. Moreover, RUNX3 was regulated by miR-148a-3p, which targeted DNA methyltransferase enzyme DNMT1 in LSCC cells. Therefore, miR-148a-3p may regulate RUNX3 expression through the modulation of DNMT1-dependent DNA methylation in LSCC, providing a novel target and a potential therapeutic pathway against LSCC.
Application of dendritic cells (DCs) to prime responses to tumor Ags provides a promising approach to immunotherapy. However, only a limited number of DCs can be manufactured from adult precursors. In contrast, pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells represent an inexhaustible source for DC production, although it remains a major challenge to steer directional differentiation because ES cell-derived cells are typically immature with impaired functional capacity. Consistent with this notion, we found that mouse ES cell-derived DCs (ES-DCs) represented less mature cells compared with bone marrow-derived DCs. This finding prompted us to compare the gene expression profile of the ES cell- and adult progenitor-derived, GM-CSF-instructed, nonconventional DC subsets. We quantified the mRNA level of 17 DC-specific transcription factors and observed that 3 transcriptional regulators (Irf4, Spi-B, and Runx3) showed lower expression in ES-DCs than in bone marrow-derived DCs. In light of this altered gene expression, we probed the effects of these transcription factors in developing mouse ES-DCs with an isogenic expression screen. Our analysis revealed that forced expression of Irf4 repressed ES-DC development, whereas, in contrast, Runx3 improved the ES-DC maturation capacity. Moreover, LPS-treated and Runx3-activated ES-DCs exhibited enhanced T cell activation and migratory potential. In summary, we found that ex vivo-generated ES-DCs had a compromised maturation ability and immunogenicity. However, ectopic expression of Runx3 enhances cytokine-driven ES-DC development and acts as an instructive tool for the generation of mature DCs with enhanced immunogenicity from pluripotent stem cells.
DNA methylation is an epigenetic mechanism in the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Here, we conducted a systematic meta-analysis to evaluate the contribution of DNA methylation to the risk of HCC. A total of 2109 publications were initially retrieved from PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, Embase, CNKI and Wanfang literature database. After a four-step filtration, we harvested 144 case-control articles in the meta-analysis. Our results revealed that 24 genes (carcinoma tissues vs adjacent tissues), 17 genes (carcinoma tissues vs normal tissues) and six genes (carcinoma serums vs normal serums) were significantly hypermethylated in HCC. Subgroup meta-analysis by geographical populations showed that six genes (carcinoma tissues vs adjacent tissues) and four genes (carcinoma tissues vs normal tissues) were significantly hypermethylated in HCC. Our meta-analysis identified the correlations between a number of aberrant methylated genes (p16, RASSF1A, GSTP1, p14, CDH1, APC, RUNX3, SOCS1, p15, MGMT, SFRP1, WIF1, PRDM2, DAPK1, RARβ, hMLH1, p73, DLC1, p53, SPINT2, OPCML and WT1) and HCC. Aberrant DNA methylation might become useful biomarkers for the prediction and diagnosis of HCC.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) methylation plays an important role in the carcinogenesis of breast cancer (BC). However, the association between RUNX3 hypermethylation and significance of BC remains under investigation. The purpose of this study is to perform a meta-analysis and literature review to evaluate the clinicopathological significance of RUNX3 hypermethylation in BC. A comprehensive literature search was performed in Medline, Web of Science, EMBASE, Cochrane Library Database, CNKI and Google scholar. A total of 10 studies and 747 patients were included for the meta-analysis. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) with corresponding confidence intervals (CIs) were evaluated and summarized respectively. RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly correlated with the risk of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), OR was 50.37, p < 0.00001 and 22.66, p < 0.00001 respectively. Interestingly, the frequency of RUNX3 hypermethylation increased in estrogen receptor (ER) positive BC, OR was 12.12, p = 0.005. High RUNX3 mRNA expression was strongly associated with better relapse-free survival (RFS) in BC patients. In summary, RUNX3 methylation could be a promising early biomarker for the diagnosis of BC. High RUNX3 mRNA expression is correlated to better RFS in BC patients. RUNX3 could be a potential therapeutic target for the development of personalized therapy.
Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) positive selection of CD8+ T cells in the thymus requires that T cell antigen receptor (TCR) signaling end in time for cytokines to induce Runx3d, the CD8-lineage transcription factor. We examined the time required for these events and found that the overall duration of positive selection was similar for all CD8+ thymocytes in mice, despite markedly different TCR signaling times. Notably, prolonged TCR signaling times were counter-balanced by accelerated Runx3d induction by cytokines and accelerated differentiation into CD8+ T cells. Consequently, lineage errors did not occur except when MHC I-TCR signaling was so prolonged that the CD4-lineage-specifying transcription factor ThPOK was expressed, preventing Runx3d induction. Thus, our results identify a compensatory signaling mechanism that prevents lineage-fate errors by dynamically modulating Runx3d induction rates during MHC I positive selection.
Viral respiratory tract infections are the most common illness in humans. Infection of the respiratory viruses results in accumulation of viral replicative double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), which is one of the important components of infecting viruses for the induction of lung epithelial cell apoptosis and innate immune response, including the production of interferon (IFN). In the present study, we have investigated the regulation of dsRNA-induced airway epithelial cell apoptosis by IFN. We found that transcription factor Runx3 was strongly induced by type-II IFNγ, slightly by type-III IFNλ, but essentially not by type-I IFNα in airway epithelial cells. IFNγ-induced expression of Runx3 was predominantly mediated by JAK-STAT1 pathway and partially by NF-κB pathway. Interestingly, Runx3 can be synergistically induced by IFNγ with a synthetic analog of viral dsRNA polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid [poly(I:C)] or tumor necrosis factor-α (TNFα) through both JAK-STAT1 and NF-κB pathways. We further found that dsRNA poly(I:C)-induced apoptosis of airway epithelial cells was mediated by dsRNA receptor toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) and was markedly augmented by IFNγ through the enhanced expression of TLR3 and subsequent activation of both extrinsic and intrinsic apoptosis pathways. Last, we demonstrated that upregulation of Runx3 by IFNγ promoted TLR3 expression, thus amplifying the dsRNA-induced apoptosis in airway epithelial cells. These novel findings indicate that IFNγ promotes dsRNA-induced TLR3-dependent apoptosis via upregulation of transcription factor Runx3 in airway epithelial cells. Findings from our study may provide new insights into the regulation of airway epithelial cell apoptosis by IFNγ during viral respiratory tract infection.
Erratum in    Cancer Sci. 2020 Mar;111(3):1032-1033.
Recent studies have determined that inactivation of runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) expression is highly associated with lymph node metastasis and poor prognosis in various types of cancer. However, the mechanism of RUNX3-mediated suppression of tumor metastasis remains unclear. Herein, we aimed to clarify the effect of RUNX3 on metastasis and angiogenesis in colorectal cancer (CRC). Firstly, we found that the reduction in expression of RUNX3 in CRC tissues when compared with tumor adjacent normal colon tissues, as indicated by reduced RUNX3 staining, was significantly correlated with tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage. Secondly, we demonstrated that RUNX3 overexpression inhibited CRC cell migration and invasion resulting from the upregulation of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) and MMP-9 expression. In contrast, the knockdown of RUNX3 reduced the inhibition of migration and invasion of CRC cells. Finally, we found that restoration of RUNX3 decreased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion and suppressed endothelial cell growth and tube formation in CRC cells. All in all, our findings may provide insight into the development of RUNX3 for CRC metastasis diagnostics and therapeutics.
The key role of RUNX3 in physiological T-cell differentiation has been extensively documented. However, information on its relevance for the development of human T-cell lymphomas or leukemias is scarce. Here, we show that alterations of RUNX3 by either heterozygous deletion or methylation of its distal promoter can be observed in the tumor cells of 15 of 21 (71%) patients suffering from Sézary syndrome, an aggressive variant of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. As a consequence, mRNA levels of RUNX3/p46, the isoform controlled by the distal promoter, are significantly lower in Sézary syndrome tumor cells. Re-expression of RUNX3/p46 reduces cell viability and promotes apoptosis in a RUNX3/p46low cell line of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Based on this, we present evidence that RUNX3 can act as a tumor suppressor in a human T-cell malignancy and suggest that this effect is predominantly mediated through transcripts from its distal promoter, in particular RUNX3/p46.
BACKGROUND: Preoperative chemoradiation combined with surgery has been of focus recently in order to improve prognosis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patients. Finding biological markers that may assist in predicting the therapeutic effect of chemoradiation may benefit the treatment effect. In this study, the role of RUNX3 in the formation of cisplatin resistance in ESCC was examined.METHODS: The study enrolled 103 stage IIa-IIIb ESCC patients who had undergone esophagectomy. RUNX3 expression in ESCC tissue was detected.RESULTS: A higher expression of RUNX3 in ESCC patients correlated with a more sensitive response to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. A consistently lower expression of RUNX3 was found in the ESCC tissues of patients who agreed to perioperative chemotherapy compared with patients who had undergone no preoperative treatment. A lower RUNX3 expression in cisplatin-resistant ESCC cell lines, Eca109 and TE-1, was observed compared with parental cell lines. Heterologous RUNX3 expression significantly suppressed cisplatin resistance in Eca109 and TE-1, both in vitro and vivo. Meanwhile, heterologous RUNX3 expression could inhibit growth and induce apoptosis in cisplatin resistant Eca109 and TE-1 cell lines in vitro. Remarkable inhibition of the Akt pathway was observed in heterologous RUNX3 expression in Eca109 and TE-1. Silencing Akt1 could reverse cisplatin resistance in Eca109 and TE-1.CONCLUSION: Our results confirmed that a loss of RUNX3 in ESCC may contribute to cisplatin-resistance. RUNX3 could reverse cisplatin resistance via suppression of the Akt pathway in ESCC patients.
We previously demonstrated that the Runx3 transcription factor is expressed in the hypothalami, pituitaries, and ovaries of mice, and that Runx3 knockout (Runx3-/-) mice are anovulatory and their uteri are atrophic. Runx3 mRNA expression was detected in the granulosa cells of ovarian follicles, and in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and arcuate nucleus (ARC). In the present study, we examined the effects of Runx3 knockout on the gene expression of enzymes associated with steroidogenesis. We found decreased Cyp11a1 mRNA expression in Runx3-/- mouse ovaries compared with that in wild-type (wt) mouse ovaries at the age of 8 weeks. In situ hybridization analysis showed that the percentages of Cyp11a1 mRNA-expressing theca cells in follicles of Runx3-/- mice were decreased compared with those of wt mice. In accord with the alterations in Runx3-/- mouse ovaries, Kiss1 mRNA levels in ARC were increased, whereas mRNA levels of kisspeptin in AVPV were decreased, and gonadotropin-releasing hormone in the preoptic area and follicle-stimulating hormone β subunit gene were increased in Runx3-/- mice. Following an ovarian transplantation experiment between Runx3-/- mice and wt mice, corpora lutea were observed when ovaries from Runx3-/- mice were transplanted into wt mice, but not when those from wt mice were transplanted into Runx3-/- mice, suggesting that Runx3 in the hypothalamo-pituitary system may drive gonadotropin release to induce ovulation in the ovary. These findings indicate that Runx3 plays a crucial role in the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis.
Growing evidence indicates that some abnormally expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) influence tumorigenesis and progression. Previous studies reported that miR-20a is among the frequently altered miRNAs in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but its expression pattern and role in HCC remain controversial. In the present study, we demonstrated that miR-20a-5p exhibited aberrant expression in HCC tissues compared with paired non-tumor tissues: 52% of the tumor samples showed a greater increase. Overexpression of miR-20a contributed to HCC cell proliferation and migration in vitro, and treatment with anti-miR20a-5p caused the opposite effects. Further studies revealed RUNX3, an important tumor-suppressor, as a direct target of miR-20a-5p. We observed that the level of RUNX3 was sharply reduced in both mRNA and protein in HCC tissues compared with paired non-tumor tissues. Collectively, our results support the viewpoint that miR-20-5p has an oncogenic property, miR-20a overexpression contributed to HCC cell proliferation and migration through reducing the translation of RUNX3. The data provide a new mechanism of miR-20a regulating RUNX3 in HCC.
PURPOSE: Gene-specific methylation and expression have shown biological and clinical importance for breast cancer diagnosis and prognosis. Integrated analysis of gene methylation and gene expression may identify genes associated with biology mechanism and clinical outcome of breast cancer and aid in clinical management.METHODS: Using high-throughput microfluidic quantitative PCR, we analyzed the expression profiles of 48 candidate genes in 96 Chinese breast cancer patients and investigated their correlation with gene methylation and associations with breast cancer clinical parameters.RESULTS: Breast cancer-specific gene expression alternation was found in 25 genes with significant expression difference between paired tumor and normal tissues. A total of 9 genes (CCND2, EGFR, GSTP1, PGR, PTGS2, RECK, SOX17, TNFRSF10D, and WIF1) showed significant negative correlation between methylation and gene expression, which were validated in the TCGA database. Total 23 genes (ACADL, APC, BRCA2, CADM1, CAV1, CCND2, CST6, EGFR, ESR2, GSTP1, ICAM5, NPY, PGR, PTGS2, RECK, RUNX3, SFRP1, SOX17, SYK, TGFBR2, TNFRSF10D, WIF1, and WRN) annotated with potential TFBSs in the promoter regions showed negative correlation between methylation and expression. In logistics regression analysis, 31 of the 48 genes showed improved performance in disease prediction with combination of methylation and expression coefficient.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated the complex correlation and the possible regulatory mechanisms between DNA methylation and gene expression. Integration analysis of methylation and expression of candidate genes could improve performance in breast cancer prediction. These findings would contribute to molecular characterization and identification of biomarkers for potential clinical applications.
OBJECTIVE: To systematically evaluate the relationship of the methylation of the human-runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) promoter region and gastric cancer risk through meta-analysis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The studies published in PubMed, EMBASE, Ovid, and CNKI were retrieved. The association between RUNX3 gene promoter methylation and gastric cancer was analyzed using Stata 11.0 (http://www.stata.com; Stata Corporation, College Station, TX, USA) and Review Man 5.0 software (http://ims.cochrane.org/revman/download).RESULTS: Seventeen studies are included in the analysis. Meta-analysis reveals that the odds ratio of the methylation of the RUNX3 promoter region in gastric was 7.32 (95% confidence interval: 5.12-10.47), which was significant higher than the normal gastric tissues (P < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: The RUNX3 gene promoter methylation rate was much higher in tumor tissue than that in normal gastric tissue in patient with gastric cancer, which indicates a close association between gastric cancer and RUNX3 gene promoter methylation.
Atherosclerosis is a chronic multifactorial inflammatory disease with high prevalence worldwide, and has become the leading cause of death. The present study was designed to investigate the impact of high-fat diet on ApoE(-/-) mice exhibiting atherosclerosis by detecting the genome-wide expression profile of lncRNAs and mRNAs. A total of 354 differentially expressed lncRNAs were identified (≥2.0 folds). Simultaneously, 357 differentially expressed mRNAs from the same chip were found. The expression differences of lncRNAs and mRNAs were consistent in both qPCR and microarray detection. Annotation results of the mRNAs which correlated with lncRNAs showed that the commonly related pathways were metabolism and inflammation. Hypergeometric distribution analysis indicated that the differentially expressed lncRNAs had been mostly regulated by transcription factors (TFs) such as Myod1, Rxra, Pparg, Tcf3, etc. Additional lncRNA-target-TFs network analysis was conducted for the top 20 differentially expressed lncRNAs. The results indicated Hnf4a, Ppara, Vdr, and Runx3 as the TFs most likely to regulate the production of these lncRNAs, and might play roles in inflammatory and metabolic processes in atherosclerosis. In a nutshell, the present study identified a panel of dysregulated lncRNAs and mRNAs that may be potential biomarkers or drug targets relevant to the high-fat diet related atherogenesis.
Pigs are an attractive animal model to study the progression of cancer because of their anatomical and physiological similarities to human. However, the use of pig models for cancer research has been limited by availability of genetically engineered pigs which can recapitulate human cancer progression. Utilizing genome editing technologies such as CRISPR/Cas9 system allows us to generate genetically engineered pigs at a higher efficiency. In this study, specific CRISPR/Cas9 systems were used to target RUNX3, a known tumour suppressor gene, to generate a pig model that can induce gastric cancer in human. First, RUNX3 knockout cell lines carrying genetic modification (monoallelic or biallelic) of RUNX3 were generated by introducing engineered CRISPR/Cas9 system specific to RUNX3 into foetal fibroblast cells. Then, the genetically modified foetal fibroblast cells were used as donor cells for somatic cell nuclear transfer, followed by embryo transfer. We successfully obtained four live RUNX3 knockout piglets from two surrogates. The piglets showed the lack of RUNX3 protein in their internal organ system. Our results demonstrate that the CRISPR/Cas9 system is effective in inducing mutations on a specific locus of genome and the RUNX3 knockout pigs can be useful resources for human cancer research and to develop novel cancer therapies.
The development of disease of Barrett's esophagus is based on processes of metaplasia of epithelium of esophagus when as a result of reflux of gastric juice and bile acids the normal planocellular epithelium of esophagus is replaced by cylindrical epithelium of intestinal type. Thereupon, Barrett's esophagus is progressing up to dysplasia and adenocarcinoma of esophagus. The progression from precancerous states up to tumor is related to development of genome disorders in cells associated with malignant transformation. The genetic and epigenetic alterations conditioning tumor growth can be used as markers of prognosis of clinical course of disease. To receive possible markers of progression of Barrett's esophagus the study was organized concerning methylation of such genes-suppressors of tumor growth as MGMT, CDH1, p16/CDKN2A, DAPK, RAR-β and RUNX3 in patients with Barrett's esophagus and adenocarcinoma of esophagus. The effectiveness of applied anti-reflux surgical treatment was evaluated too. The abnormal methylation of studied genetic panel in patients with Barrett's esophagus prior to surgical treatment was observed reliably more frequently in altered epithelium as compared with unaltered epithelium (p<0.0001), under dysplasia as compared with metaplasia (p<0.0358) and in the presence of long (>3 cm) segments of altered epithelium as compared with short (<3 cm) segments (p=0.0068). In normal epithelium, prior to operation, abnormal methylation of panel of genes was detected in 7/60 (12%) of patients. Against the background of surgical treatment number of long and short segments of altered epithelium of esophagus reliably decreased (p<0.05). At that, in short segments after operation rate of methylation increased significantly (p=0.0068). Though after operation number of patients with Barrett's esophagus and dysplasia and metaplasia decreased, the rate of abnormal methylation in the other patients increased. It is demonstrated that anti-reflux operation ameliorates condition of mucous membrane of esophagus under Barrett's esophagus. However, in cases without regression significant increasing of rate of abnormal methylation of studied panel of genes is occurred. This is a proof that abnormal methylation of system of genes is related to worse response to application of anti-reflux surgical treatment.
BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Methylation status of RUNX3 remains largely unknown in gastric cancer (GC). The aim of this study was to prognostically evaluate the methylation level of CpG sites within RUNX3 promoter region in GC.METHODS: Using pyrosequencing, we quantitatively explored the methylation status of 8 CpG sites within RUNX3 promoter region for 76 gastric cancer and 24 normal gastric tissues. We then analyzed the association between methylation level of each CpG site and clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes in the cohort.RESULTS: Methylation of RUNX3 promoter was significantly higher in GC than normal subjects. Overall methylation level was closely associated with tumor invasion and TNM stage. Positive associations were found between hypermethylation of the following concerned sites and variables: site -1392, -1397, -1403, -1415 and tumor invasion, as well as TNM stage; site -1392 and lymph node metastasis along with number of lymph node metastases; site -1415 and cancer recurrence; site -1403, -1415 and cancer-related deaths. In multivariate analysis, tumor invasion was correlated with sites -1392 and -1397. Lymph node metastasis was associated with site -1392. Most importantly, methylation of site -1415 was associated with poor survival by using Cox survival regression.CONCLUSION: Analysis of RUNX3 gene promoter by quantitative pyrosequencing suggested methylation status of RUNX3 is different in normal and tumor tissues. RUNX3 methylation level is associated with GC, especially the methylation at site -1415 contributes to the poor prognosis in GC. Thus, RUNX3 methylation may serve as a valuable diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in GC.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a deadly malignancy characterized at the epigenetic level by global DNA hypomethylation and focal hypermethylation on the promoter of tumor suppressor genes. In most cases it develops on a background of liver steatohepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis. Guadecitabine (SGI-110) is a second-generation hypomethylating agent, which inhibits DNA methyltransferases. Guadecitabine is formulated as a dinucleotide of decitabine and deoxyguanosine that is resistant to cytidine deaminase (CDA) degradation and results in prolonged in vivo exposure to decitabine following small volume subcutaneous administration of guadecitabine. Here we found that guadecitabine is an effective demethylating agent and is able to prevent HCC progression in pre-clinical models. In a xenograft HCC HepG2 model, guadecitabine impeded tumor growth and inhibited angiogenesis, while it could not prevent liver fibrosis and inflammation in a mouse model of steatohepatitis. Demethylating efficacy of guadecitabine on LINE-1 elements was found to be the highest 8 d post-infusion in blood samples of mice. Analysis of a panel of human HCC vs. normal tissue revealed a signature of hypermethylated tumor suppressor genes (CDKN1A, CDKN2A, DLEC1, E2F1, GSTP1, OPCML, E2F1, RASSF1, RUNX3, and SOCS1) as detected by methylation-specific PCR. A pronounced demethylating effect of guadecitabine was obtained also in the promoters of a subset of tumor suppressors genes (CDKN2A, DLEC1, and RUNX3) in HepG2 and Huh-7 HCC cells. Finally, we analyzed the role of macroH2A1, a variant of histone H2A, an oncogene upregulated in human cirrhosis/HCC that synergizes with DNA methylation in suppressing tumor suppressor genes, and it prevents the inhibition of cell growth triggered by decitabine in HCC cells. Guadecitabine, in contrast to decitabine, blocked growth in HCC cells overexpressing macroH2A1 histones and with high CDA levels, despite being unable to fully demethylate CDKN2A, RUNX3, and DLEC1 promoters altered by macroH2A1. Collectively, our findings in human and mice models reveal novel epigenetic anti-HCC effects of guadecitabine, which might be effective specifically in advanced states of the disease.
Aberrant promoter methylation of RUNX3 has been reported in several tumors including human breast cancer (BC). However, the association between RUNX3 hypermethylation and incidence of BC remains elusive. In this study, a detailed literature search was performed in Medline and Google Scholar for related research publications. Analysis of pooled data were executed. Odds ratios with corresponding confidence intervals were determined and summarized, respectively. Finally, 13 studies were identified for the meta-analysis. Analysis of the pooled data showed that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in both ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) than in normal breast tissues. In addition, RUNX3 methylation was significantly higher in IDC than in benign tumor. However, RUNX3 methylation was not significantly higher in IDC than in ductal carcinoma in situ. We also determined that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in ER positive BC than in ER negative BC. In addition, high RUNX3 mRNA expression was found to be correlated with better overall survival and relapse-free survival for all BC patients. Our results strongly support that RUNX3 hypermethylation may play an important role in BC incidence. RUNX3 methylation is a valuable early biomarker for the diagnosis of BC. Further large-scale studies will provide more insight into the role of RUNX3 hypermethylation in the carcinogenesis and clinical diagnosis of BC patients.
Gastric cancer (GC) pathogenesis involves genetic, epigenetic and environmental factors. Epigenetic alterations, such as DNA methylation are considered pivotal in the inactivation of tumor-related genes. We assessed a methylation panel of 5 genes to study their association to GC progression and microsatellite instability (MSI), and studied the role of RUNX3 in GC pathogenesis and the tumor immune microenvironment.The methylation status of 47 promoter-CpG islands was studied through MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry analysis in 35 Microsatellite stable (MSS) GC, 26 MSI, and 18 cancer-free samples (CFS), and 6 MSS GC and 4 MSI GC cell lines. We also studied RUNX3 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in 40 samples, and validated differences in methylation levels between tumor, normal, and immune tissue in 14 additional samples.Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of methylation levels revealed no distinct subgroups between MSI and MSS samples or cell lines. CFSs clustered together showing higher levels of RUNX3 methylation compared to GC samples. RUNX3 showed protein silencing in cancer and normal mucosa, compared to inflammatory peritumoural infiltrate in almost all cases, showing a non-lymphocytic predominant pattern and being correlated with epigenetic silencing.Our results show aberrant promoter's methylation in APC, CDH1, CDKN2A, MLH1 and RUNX3 associated with GC, as well as a non-lymphocytic predominant infiltrate with high expression of RUNX3. Deep study of RUNX3 inflammation signaling could help in understanding inflammation and immune activation in the tumor microenvironment.
Selectins are carbohydrate-binding adhesion molecules that control leukocyte traffic. Induction of selectin ligands on T cells is controlled primarily by cytokines, including TGF-β1, and requires p38α MAPK, but transcriptional mechanisms that underlie cytokine-driven selectin ligand expression are poorly understood. In this study, we show, using mice with conditional deletions of the TGF-β1-responsive transcription factors Smad2, Smad3, or Smad4, that induction of selectin ligands on CD4 cells in response to TGF-β1 requires Smad4 plus either Smad2 or Smad3. Analysis of CD4 cells from mice with only one functional Smad4 allele revealed a sharp gene dosage effect, suggesting the existence of a threshold of TGF-β1 signal strength required for selectin ligand induction. Both Smad4 plus either Smad2 or Smad3 were selectively required for induction of Fut7 and Gcnt1, glycosyltransferases critical for selectin ligand biosynthesis, but they were not required for St3gal4 or St3gal6 induction. Smad4 plus either Smad2 or Smad3 were also required for induction of Runx transcription factors by TGF-β1. Enforced expression of Runx2, but not Runx1 or Runx3, in Smad2/Smad3 doubly deficient CD4 cells restored selectin ligand expression to wild-type levels. In contrast, enforced expression of Runx1, Runx2, or Runx3 failed to restore differentiation of TGF-β1-dependent Th cell lineages, including Th17, Th9, and induced regulatory T cells. These results show that Smads are directly required for Th cell differentiation independent of Runx induction but only indirectly required via Runx2 for TGF-β1-induced selectin ligand induction on murine CD4 T cells.
The interaction between bone marrow stromal cells and leukemia cells is critical for the persistence and progression of leukemia, and this interaction may account for residual disease. However, the link between leukemia cells and their environment is still poorly understood. In our study, runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was identified as a novel target gene affected by As2O3 and involved in mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)‑mediated protection of leukemia cells from As2O3‑induced apoptosis. We observed induction of RUNX3 expression and the translocation of RUNX3 into the nucleus after As2O3 treatment in leukemia cells. In K562 chronic myeloid leukemia cells, downregulation of endogenous RUNX3 compromised As2O3‑induced growth inhibition, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis. In the presence of MSC, As2O3‑induced expression of RUNX3 was reduced significantly and this reduction was modulated by CXCL12/CXCR4 signaling. Furthermore, overexpression of RUNX3 restored, at least in part, the sensitivity of leukemic cells to As2O3. We conclude that RUNX3 plays an important role in As2O3‑induced cellular responses and allows cells to overcome MSC‑mediated drug resistance. Therefore, RUNX3 is a promising target for therapeutic approaches to overcome MSC‑mediated drug resistance.
RUNX3 is a transcriptional factor that has been shown to regulate protein-coding gene expression at the transcriptional level. However, the regulation of RUNX3 on miRNAs is not fully understood. In this study, we used miRNA microarray to identify the miRNAs that are regulated by RUNX3 and found that miR-29b showed the most up-regulation in RUNX3 over-expressed cells compared with the control cells. We used qRT-PCR to confirm the miRNA microarray results in several gastric cancer cells and found that RUNX3 could bind to the miR-29b promoter directly and cooperate with Smad3 to increase the promoter activity of miR-29b. In the clinical setting, both RUNX3 and miR-29b are down-regulated significantly in human gastric cancer tissues. A positive correlation between miR-29b and RUNX3 was found in the gastric cancer tissues. Additionally, we found that miR-29b suppressed the proliferation and metastasis of gastric cancer cells by directly targeting KDM2A. The miR-29b/KDM2A axis was involved in the RUNX3-mediated inhibition of gastric cancer cell proliferation and metastasis. Taken together, our results suggested that RUNX3-mediated up-regulation of miR-29b inhibited the proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells by targeting KDM2A, representing a novel molecular mechanism for the tumor suppression action of RUNX3.
Comment on    doi: 10.1073/pnas.1523157113.
The present study investigated the effect of a DNA demethylating agent, decitabine, against Epstein-Barr virus-associated gastric cancer (EBVaGC). Decitabine inhibited cell growth and induced G2/M arrest and apoptosis in EBVaGC cell lines. The expression of E-cadherin was up-regulated and cell motility was significantly inhibited in the cells treated with decitabine. The promoter regions of p73 and RUNX3 were demethylated, and their expression was up-regulated by decitabine. They enhanced the transcription of p21, which induced G2/M arrest and apoptosis through down-regulation of c-Myc. Decitabine also induced the expression of BZLF1 in SNU719. Induction of EBV lytic infection was an alternative way to cause apoptosis of the host cells. This study is the first report to reveal the effectiveness of a demethylating agent in inhibiting tumor cell proliferation and up-regulation of E-cadherin in EBVaGC. J. Med. Virol. 89:508-517, 2017. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The tumor-suppressor RUNX3 has a critical role in a lineage determination, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Lozenge (Lz), a Drosophila homolog of mammalian RUNX family members, has integral roles in these processes and specifically in eye cell fate determination. To elucidate the genetic modifiers of Lz/RUNX3, we performed a large-scale functional screen in a fly mutant library. The screen revealed genetic interactions between the Lz, Rac and Hippo pathways. Analysis of interactions among these genes revealed that the defective phenotype resulting from activation of Yki, an end point effector of the Hippo pathway, was suppressed by Lz and enhanced by Rac-Trio. Molecular biological analysis using mammalian homologs reveled that LATS1/2-mediated YAP phosphorylation-facilitated dissociation of the YAP-TEAD4 complex and association of the YAP-RUNX3 complex. When cells were stimulated to proliferate, activated RAC-TRIO signaling inhibited LATS1/2-mediated YAP phosphorylation; consequently, YAP dissociated from RUNX3 and associated with TEAD, thereby replacing the YAP-RUNX3 complex with YAP-TEAD. RUNX3 contributed to both association and dissociation of YAP-TEAD complex, most likely through the formation of the YAP-TEAD-RUNX3 ternary complex. Ectopic expression of RUNX3 in MKN28 gastric cancer cells reduced tumorigenicity, and the tumor-suppressive activity of RUNX3 was associated with its ability to interact with YAP. These results identify a novel regulatory mechanism, mediated by the Hippo and RAC-TRIO pathways, that changes the binding partner of YAP.
The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of RUNX3 promoter methylation in the pathogenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) among Asians. For this purpose, we performed a comprehensive search of Chinese and English language scientific literature databases using stringent selection criteria; ultimately, we identified relevant studies that specifically assessed the correlation between RUNX3 promoter methylation and HCC. All data was retrieved and analyzed by two independent investigators using the STATA software (version 12.0). Initially, 132 studies (103 in Chinese, 29 in English) were retrieved; 122 were eliminated through a stepwise filtering process. Finally, 10 studies conducted in Asian populations (5 Chinese, 4 Japanese, 1 Korean) fulfilled all the inclusion criteria of our meta-analysis. The studies included 588 HCC patients (641 cancer tissues; 593 adjacent normal tissues) and 184 healthy controls. We observed that RUNX3 promoter methylation was significantly higher in cancer tissues than in adjacent normal tissues (RR = 6.35, 95%CI = 3.62-11.14, P < 0.001) and normal control tissues (RR = 17.31, 95%CI = 7.08-42.34, P < 0.001). RUNX3 promoter methylation status did not differ significantly between patients with different TNM stages (RR = 0.88, 95%CI = 0.70-1.10, P = 0.269) and histological grades (RR = 0.86, 95%CI = 0.65-1.14, P = 0.304), suggesting that RUNX3 promoter methylation is linked to the origin of HCC but not to its progression from non-metastatic to metastatic stages. This in turn indicated that RUNX3 could be an early diagnostic marker distinguishing benign from malignant hepatocellular carcinoma.
BACKGROUND: The lack of positive costimulatory molecules represents one of the mechanisms by which tumor cells evade immune surveillance. Promoter hypermethylation plays a major role in cancer development through transcriptional silencing of critical genes. The aim of this study was to examine the expression of the costimulatory molecule CD80 in relationship with genomic methylation in non-inflammatory colon carcinogenesis.METHODS: Colonic mucosal samples were collected from healthy subjects (n = 30) and from dysplastic adenoma (n = 14), and colon adenocarcinoma (n = 10). DNA methyltransferases-1, -3a, -3b and CD80 mRNA expression were quantified by real time qRT-PCR. The methylation status of CDH13, APC, MLH1, MGMT1 and RUNX3 gene promoters was assessed by methylation-specific PCR. CD80 expression was assessed in HT29, HCT-15 and LoVo cell lines after treatment with the DNA-methyltransferase inhibitor 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine.RESULTS: CD80 mRNA levels were significantly lower in the non-inflammatory dysplastic colonic mucosa of patients with one or more methylated genes and inversely correlated with patients' methylation scores (τ = -0.41, p = 0.05 and τ = -0.37, p = 0.05, respectively). Treatment with 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine significantly increased CD80 expression both in terms of the level of CD80 mRNA (p = 0.007) and of CD80+ cells (p = 0.003).CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that the failure of immune surveillance mechanisms in non-inflammatory colon carcinogenesis may be linked to genomic methylation directly or indirectly affecting CD80 expression.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: This study was performed to examine the state of long interspersed nuclear element (LINE)-1 methylation level in gastric epithelial dysplasias (GEDs) and evaluate as a molecular marker for gastric carcinogenesis when it was compared with RUNX3 expression.METHODS: We examined 89 patients with GEDs subcategorized by the Vienna classification - 41 category 3 (low grade) and 48 category 4 (high grade/intramucosal carcinoma) lesion. All tissue samples were evaluated for RUNX3 immunohistochemical staining and the level of LINE-1 methylation.RESULTS: The rate of negative expression of RUNX3 in category 4 lesion was significant higher than category 3 (P<0.01). LINE-1 methylation level was statistically different between category 3 and category 4 lesion (P<0.01). Between positive and negative expression of RUNX3 in GEDs, there was a significant difference of LINE-1 methylation level (P<0.01). The area under the ROC curve (AUC) of LINE-1 methylation level for diagnosis of category 4 lesion was 0.88 (95% CI, 0.76-1.00).CONCLUSIONS: LINE-1 methylation level was well correlated with the Vienna classification of GED and it had a close relationship with the negative expression of RUNX3 in category 4 lesion. LINE-1 methylation level could be a good candidate for a molecular marker of early gastric cancer.
Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a multifactorial disease of unknown etiology. AAA is caused by segmental weakening of the aortic walls and progressive aortic dilation leading to the eventual rupture of the aorta, accompanied by intense inflammation. Additionally, studies have indicated a close relationship between the pathogenesis and progression of AAA and cellular immune responses in aneurysm wall tissue. The Runt-related genes (RUNX) encode multifunctional mediators of the of intracellular signal transduction pathways in vascular remodeling, endothelial function, immune response and inflammation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the expression level of RUNX regulatory genes in AAA tissues and to assess the correlations between them. The study was performed on AAA wall-tissue samples obtained from patients with AAA during open aneurysm repair and normal aortic tissues collected from healthy organ donors. There are no proven clinical management strategies or pharmaco-therapeutics to prevent AAA progression once an AAA has been detected. Moreover, so far no biomarkers have been established to indicate the disease status of AAA. Hence, understanding the pathogenesis of AAA has recently become an increasing priority in basic and translational vascular research. We identified significantly higher mRNA and protein level of all of three Runt-related genes in aneurysmal aorta compared to a normal aorta. Increased expression of RUNX2 was demonstrated for the first time in abdominal aortic aneurysm tissue. Additionally, relationships between the activity of RUNX genes in the pathological tissue were identified. The results of elevated expression of RUNX genes and their relationships in the AAA tissues suggest the involvement of conserved Runt-related genes in the pathophysiology of AAA development.
Comment in    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2016 Aug;13(8):464-5.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) functions downstream of transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) and plays dual roles in pancreas cancer by both suppressing (by inhibiting proliferation) and promoting (by enhancing migratory and metastatic capacity) disease progression. Consideration of the contextual regulation of RUNX3 together with its myriad downstream effects may help improve clinical outcomes for pancreas cancer patients.
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers around the globe and third most fatal malignancy. Chronic liver disorders such as chronic hepatitis and liver cirrhosis often lead to the development of HCC. Accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations are involved in the development of HCC. Genetic research sparked by recent developments in next generation sequencing has identified the frequency of genetic alterations that occur in HCC and has led to the identification of genetic hotspots. Emerging evidence suggests that epigenetic aberrations are strongly associated with the initiation and development of HCC. Various important genes encoding tumor suppressors including P16, RASSF1A, DLC-1, RUNX3 and SOCS-1 are targets of epigenetic dysregulation during the development of HCC. The present review discusses the importance of epigenetic regulations including DNA methylation, histone modification and microRNA mediated regulation of gene expression during tumorigenesis and their use as disease biomarkers. Furthermore, these epigenetic alterations have been discussed in relationship with promising therapeutic perspectives for HCC and related cancers.
The Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) are master regulators of development and major players in tumorigenesis. Interestingly, unlike most transcription factors, RUNX proteins are detected on the mitotic chromatin and apparatus, suggesting that they are functionally active in mitosis. Here, we identify key sites of RUNX phosphorylation in mitosis. We show that the phosphorylation of threonine 173 (T173) residue within the Runt domain of RUNX3 disrupts RUNX DNA binding activity during mitotic entry to facilitate the recruitment of RUNX proteins to mitotic structures. Moreover, knockdown of RUNX3 delays mitotic entry. RUNX3 phosphorylation is therefore a regulatory mechanism for mitotic entry. Cancer-associated mutations of RUNX3 T173 and its equivalent in RUNX1 further corroborate the role of RUNX phosphorylation in regulating proper mitotic progression and genomic integrity.
The aim of this study is to discuss whether the methylation levels of Runx3 could be used as the early biomarker for predicting the prognosis in chronic atrophic gastritis (CAG) patients. A total of 200 subjects including 60 controls without CAG (Group 1), 70 patients with mild CAG (Group 2), and 70 patients with moderate and severe CAG (Group 3) were recruited for this cross-sectional investigation in the Department of Gastroenterology in Daqing Oilfield General Hospital from July 2013 to May 2014. The MlALDI-TOF-MS was used to measure the methylation levels of Runx3 in all of the subjects. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blotting were chosen to determine the expression levels of Runx3. The correlations between methylation levels of Runx3 among these CAG patients and their prognosis were shown by logistic regression models. The results demonstrated that the methylation levels of CpG13, CpG14, and CpG15 in Runx3 were higher in Group 3 than those in Groups 1 and 2 (P <0.05), whereas the mRNA and protein expression levels of Runx3 were lower in Group 3 than those in Groups 1 and 2 (P <0.05). There were significantly negative correlations between the methylation levels of Runx3 with its expression and the healing prognosis of CAG patients. In brief, this study proved that the hypermethylation modifications of CpG13, CpG14, and CpG15 in the promoter region of Runx3 could result in the down regulation of Runx3 expression to affect the prognosis of CAG. So the methylation levels of these CpG sites in Runx3 in the peripheral blood can be used as the biomarker for predicting the healing prognosis of CAG patients.
Runt-related transcription factor-3 (RUNX3) is an apoptotic factor correlated with tumorigenesis and cancer progression. Enhancer of zeste homolog-2 (EZH2), a histone methyltransferase, has been shown to mediate silencing of RUNX3. We investigated RUNX3 and EZH2 expression in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). A chart review was conducted and tissue-microarray (TMA) was constructed using archived tissue from 83 DLBCL cases. RUNX3 and EZH2 protein expression was correlated with immunophenotypic subtypes and survival. Loss of RUNX3 was observed in 20 cases; EZH2 expression was observed in 59 cases. RUNX3-negative tumors had significantly lower overall and recurrence-free survival (log-rank test, p < 0.0001 for each). No correlation was found between RUNX3 and EZH2 staining (r = 0.14; p = 0.2). Results suggest a role for the RUNX3 gene in the pathogenesis of DLBCL. Loss of RUNX3 expression strongly correlated with adverse prognosis, independent of subtype. Further studies are warranted to elucidate the biology and prognostic utility of RUNX3 in DLBCL.
One of the prime objectives of cancer immunology and immunotherapy is to study the issues related to rescue and/or maintenance of the optimum effector CD8(+) T cell functions by minimizing tumor-induced negative factors. In this regard the influence of host intrinsic CD4(+) helper T cells towards generation and maintenance of CD8(+) effector T cells appears controversial in different experimental settings. Therefore, the present study was aimed to re-analyze the influence of CD4(+) helper T cells towards effector T cells during neem leaf glycoprotein (NLGP)-vaccine-mediated tumor growth restriction. CD4 depletion (mAb; Clone GK1.5) surprisingly resulted in significant increase in CD8(+) T cells in different immune organs from NLGP-treated sarcoma-bearing mice. However, such CD8 surge could not restrict the sarcoma growth in NLGP-treated CD4-depleted mice. Furthermore, CD4 depletion in early phase hinders CD8(+) T cell activation and terminal differentiation by targeting crucial transcription factor Runx3. CD4 depletion decreases accumulation of CD8α(+) dendritic cells within tumor draining lymph node, hampers antigen cross priming and CD86-CD28 interactions for optimum CD8(+) T cell functions. In order to search the mechanism of CD4(+) T cell help on NLGP-mediated CD8 effector functions, the role of CD4(+) helper T cell-derived IL-2 on optimization of CD8 functions was found using STAT5 signaling, but complete response requires physical contact of CD4(+) helper T cells with its CD8 counterpart. In conclusion, it was found that CD4(+) T cell help is not required to generate CD8(+) T cells but was found to be an integral phenomenon in maintenance of its anti-tumor functions even in NLGP-vaccine-mediated sarcoma growth restriction.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The intestinal microbiome is increasingly implicated in the pathogenesis of ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis, and other diseases collectively known as the spondyloarthropathies (SpAs). In common with other complex inflammatory diseases, SpAs have both a strong genetic and environmental component. Recent genetic studies have highlighted host pathways that may intersect the host-microbiota interaction and offer novel paradigms to understand the pathophysiology of these diseases.RECENT FINDINGS: Genetic association studies have identified genes such as RUNX3, PTPEN2, and IL-33 as susceptibility loci for SpAs. Functional studies in humans have extended knowledge of established genetic risk factors for ankylosing spondylitis that include ERAP1, ERAP2, and interleukin-23R. Recent basic research has identified new mechanisms that regulate host immune responses to the microbiota that conceivably may be dysregulated in SpA.SUMMARY: Intestinal barrier function, deletional tolerance, Th17 signature response, and endoplasmic reticulum stress pathways have been recently linked to SpA. Dysregulated immune responses to the gut microbiota and an altered microbial community structure are shared features of SpA. Although the cause-effect dynamic of this relationship remains equivocal, it nonetheless has major implications for both intestinal and extra-intestinal pathology observed in SpA.
BACKGROUND: Patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) are at risk for colorectal neoplasia. Challenges associated with surveillance colonoscopy with random biopsies for detection of dysplasia/cancer are well-documented. This study extended our findings in UC-associated colorectal cancer to include low-grade dysplasia (LGD) patients, testing whether our biomarker panel detects any UC-associated neoplasm.METHODS: DNA from the LGD area and the corresponding nonadjacent, non-dysplastic section from 171 UC-LGD patients was extracted. TaqMan SNP Genotyping Assays for TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL23R were used to evaluate polymorphisms for each gene. Bisulfite-treated DNA was used for methylation testing of RUNX3, COX2, and MINT1. LGD data were combined with UC-cancer patient data for statistical testing. Logistic regression analyses determined associations between genetic/epigenetic/clinical variables and UC-associated neoplasia. Receiver operating characteristic analyses were performed to determine the final synchronous neoplasm detection panel.RESULTS: Comparison of nonadjacent, non-dysplastic DNA from UC-neoplasm patients versus UC-controls indicated that TNF-α, IL-1β, and methylation of RUNX3, MINT1, and COX2 were significantly different (P < 0.0001). In multivariable analysis, all remained significant with an area under the curve of 0.85, exceeding the clinical variable panel area under the curve. Combining clinical and experimental variables yielded a neoplasm biomarker panel with an area under the curve of 0.95 (sensitivity and specificity of 82% and 91%, respectively). Analysis of DNA from LGD with known progression compared with LGD without progression indicated a significant difference in RUNX3 methylation.CONCLUSIONS: A combined clinical, genetic, and epigenetic model for detecting synchronous neoplasm by testing of non-neoplastic colonic tissue had favorable operating characteristics and could complement current patient care.
There has been speculation as to how bi-potent CD4(+)  CD8(+) double-positive precursor thymocytes choose their distinct developmental fate, becoming either CD4(+) helper or CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells. Based on the clear correlation of αβT cell receptor (TCR) specificity to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) classes with this lineage choice, various studies have attempted to resolve this question by examining the cellular signaling events initiated by TCR engagements, a strategy referred to as a 'top-down' approach. On the other hand, based on the other correlation of CD4/CD8 co-receptor expression with its selected fate, other studies have addressed this question by gradually unraveling the sequential mechanisms that control the phenotypic outcome of this fate decision, a method known as the 'bottom-up' approach. Bridging these two approaches will contribute to a more comprehensive understanding of how TCR signals are coupled with developmental programs in the nucleus. Advances made during the last two decades seemed to make these two approaches more closely linked. For instance, identification of two transcription factors, ThPOK and Runx3, which play central roles in the development of helper and cytotoxic lineages, respectively, provided significant insights into the transcriptional network that controls a CD4/CD8 lineage choice. This review summarizes achievements made using the 'bottom-up' approach, followed by a perspective on future pathways toward coupling TCR signaling with nuclear programs.
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory and T cell-meditated skin disease. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), one of the runt‑domain family of transcription factors, has been reported to be a susceptibility gene for psoriasis. The present study was designed to delineate the role and underlying mechanism of RUNX3 involved in the differentiation of T helper (Th) 17 and Th22 cells in psoriasis. The results of the present study demonstrated that the expression of RUNX3 increased significantly in CD4‑positive (CD4+) T cells from patients with psoriasis, compared with healthy controls. In addition, increased levels of interleukin (IL)‑6, IL‑20 and IL‑22, and increased frequencies of Th17 and Th22 cells were found in the patients with psoriasis patients, compared with the healthy controls. It was also found that the overexpression of RUNX3 increased the levels of Th17‑ and Th22‑associated cytokines in the CD4+ T cells from the healthy controls. However, the inhibition of RUNX3 reduced the levels of the associated cytokines and decreased the frequency of Th17 and Th22 cells in the CD4+ T cells from the patients with psoriasis. Taken together, the present study suggested that RUNX3 regulated the differentiation of Th17 and Th22 cells in psoriasis, providing a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of psoriasis.
It remains unclear why Barrett esophagus (BE)-associated adenocarcinoma (EAC) frequently occurs in the 0 to 3 o'clock area of the BE. The aims of this study were to clarify the localization of specialized intestinal metaplasia (SIM) as a precancerous lesion and of molecular alterations among different locations using 4-quadrant biopsies based on the "Seattle" protocol. We prospectively evaluated microsatellite instability; methylation status at the APC, CDKN2A, hMLH1, RUNX3, and MGMT genes; the immunoreactivity of the monoclonal antibody Das-1 for the colonic phenotype; and Ki-67 staining in 10 early EACs and 128 biopsy samples from 32 BE patients. Among the molecular changes, only APC gene hypermethylation was an independent predictive marker of EAC (odds ratio, 24.4; P = .01). SIM was more frequently identified in the 0 to 3 o'clock quadrant than in the 6 to 9 o'clock quadrant (P = .08). The Ki-67 index was higher in SIM than in the columnar-lined epithelium (CLE) without goblet cells (P < .0001) and in both SIM and CLE with Das-1 reactivity than in those without (P = .04 and P = .06, respectively). Furthermore, the index was relatively higher in the 0 to 3 o'clock quadrant than in the 6 to 9 o'clock quadrant in cases with Das-1 reactivity. RUNX3 methylation was more frequently found in SIM than in CLE (P = .04), whereas the incidence of the other biomarkers did not show a significant difference between the 0 to 3 o'clock and 6 to 9 o'clock areas, nor between SIM and CLE. SIM with Das-1 reactivity, but not molecular alterations, in the 0 to 3 o'clock quadrant may have higher proliferative activity compared to the other areas of the BE.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical significance of microRNA (miR)-130b-Runt domain transcription factor (RUNX3) axis and its effects on oncogenic phenotypes of human epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).METHODS: QRT-PCR was performed to detect the expression of miR-130b and RUNX3 mRNA in 100 EOC and 20 normal ovarian tissues. The associations between miR-130b and/or RUNX3 expression and various clinicopathological features of EOC patients were statistically analyzed. Then, the effects of miR-130b-RUNX3 axis on migration and invasion of EOC cells were assessed in vitro.RESULTS: miR-130b expression was downregulated, while RUNX3 mRNA was upregulated, in EOC tissues compared to normal ovarian tissues (both P=0.001). Importantly, the expression level of miR-130b in EOC tissues was negatively correlated with that of RUNX3 mRNA significantly. Additionally, miR-130b-low and/or RUNX3-high expression were all closely correlated with advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage (all P<0.05). Moreover, overexpression of miR-130b reduced the expression of RUNX3 and inhibited cancer cell migration and invasion of EOC cells, whereas knockdown of miR-130b increased the expression of RUNX3 and promoted cancer cell migration and invasion of EOC cells. After that, the impaired motility of the miR-130b overexpression cells was recovered partly by the expression of RUNX3. Furthermore, the knockdown of RUNX3 also gave rise to a decrease in cell migration and invasion.CONCLUSION: Our data reveal that the dysregulation of miR-130b-RUNX3 axis may play important roles in EOC development and progression, and the loss of miR-130b may contribute to the malignant biological behavior of EOC cells via regulating the expression of RUNX3, implying their potentials as promising markers for predicting EOC progression and as candidate targets for gene therapy.
INTRODUCTION: Breast cancer, the product of numerous rare mutational events that occur over an extended time period, presents numerous challenges to investigators interested in studying the transformation from normal breast epithelium to malignancy using traditional laboratory methods, particularly with respect to characterizing transitional and pre-malignant states. Dynamic computational modeling can provide insight into these pathophysiological dynamics, and as such we use a previously validated agent-based computational model of the mammary epithelium (the DEABM) to investigate the probabilistic mechanisms by which normal populations of ductal cells could transform into states replicating features of both pre-malignant breast lesions and a diverse set of breast cancer subtypes.METHODS: The DEABM consists of simulated cellular populations governed by algorithms based on accepted and previously published cellular mechanisms. Cells respond to hormones, undergo mitosis, apoptosis and cellular differentiation. Heritable mutations to 12 genes prominently implicated in breast cancer are acquired via a probabilistic mechanism. 3000 simulations of the 40-year period of menstrual cycling were run in wild-type (WT) and BRCA1-mutated groups. Simulations were analyzed by development of hyperplastic states, incidence of malignancy, hormone receptor and HER-2 status, frequency of mutation to particular genes, and whether mutations were early events in carcinogenesis.RESULTS: Cancer incidence in WT (2.6%) and BRCA1-mutated (45.9%) populations closely matched published epidemiologic rates. Hormone receptor expression profiles in both WT and BRCA groups also closely matched epidemiologic data. Hyperplastic populations carried more mutations than normal populations and mutations were similar to early mutations found in ER+ tumors (telomerase, E-cadherin, TGFB, RUNX3, p < .01). ER- tumors carried significantly more mutations and carried more early mutations in BRCA1, c-MYC and genes associated with epithelial-mesenchymal transition.CONCLUSIONS: The DEABM generates diverse tumors that express tumor markers consistent with epidemiologic data. The DEABM also generates non-invasive, hyperplastic populations, analogous to atypia or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), via mutations to genes known to be present in hyperplastic lesions and as early mutations in breast cancers. The results demonstrate that agent-based models are well-suited to studying tumor evolution through stages of carcinogenesis and have the potential to be used to develop prevention and treatment strategies.
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a biliary tree-origin epithelial malignancy in liver with unfavorable clinical outcomes. Systematic genome analyses may advance our understanding of ICC pathogenesis also improving current diagnostic and therapeutic modalities. In this study, we analyzed 17 ICC tumor-vs-matched normal pairs using either whole-exome (n = 7), transcriptome sequencing (n = 7) or both platforms (n = 3). For somatic mutations, we identified recurrent mutations of previously reported genes such as KRAS, TP53, APC as well as epigenetic regulators and those of TGFβ signaling pathway. According to the abundance of somatic mutations and DNA copy number alterations (CNA), ten ICC exome cases were distinguished into two classes as those primarily driven by either somatic mutations (M class) or CNAs (C class). Compared to M class ICCs (92-147 somatic mutations; n = 5) with a relative deficit of CNAs, C class ICCs (54-84 mutations; n = 5) harbor recurrent focal CNAs including deletions involving CDKN2A, ROBO1, ROBO2, RUNX3, and SMAD4. We also show that transcriptome sequencing can be used for expression-based ICC categorization but the somatic mutation calling from the transcriptome can be heavily influenced by the gene expression level and potentially, by posttranscriptional modification such as nonsense mediated decay. Along with a substantial level of mutational heterogeneity of ICC genomes, our study reveals previously unrecognized two ICC classes defined by relative abundance of somatic mutations over CNAs or vice versa, which should be considered in the selection of genotyping platforms and sensitive screening of targets for ICC therapeutics.
Erratum in    Oncol Rep. 2017 Mar;37(3):1921.
Aging, as a complex biological process, is accompanied by the accumulation of functional loses at different levels, which makes age to be the biggest risk factor to many neurological diseases. Even following decades of investigation, the process of aging is still far from being fully understood, especially at a systematic level. In this study, we identified aging related genes in brain by collecting the ones with sustained and consistent gene expression or DNA methylation changes in the aging process. Functional analysis with Gene Ontology to these genes suggested transcriptional regulators to be the most affected genes in the aging process. Transcription regulation analysis found some transcription factors, especially Specificity Protein 1 (SP1), to play important roles in regulating aging related gene expression. Module-based functional analysis indicated these genes to be associated with many well-known aging related pathways, supporting the validity of our approach to select aging related genes. Finally, we investigated the roles of aging related genes on Alzheimer's Disease (AD). We found that aging and AD related genes both involved some common pathways, which provided a possible explanation why aging made the brain more vulnerable to Alzheimer's Disease.
P21 Activated Kinase 1 (Pak1), an oncogenic serine/threonine kinase, is known to have a significant role in the regulation of cytoskeleton and cellular morphology. Runx3 was initially known for its role in tumor suppressor function, but recent studies have reported the oncogenic role of Runx3 in various cancers. However, the mechanism that controls the paradoxical functions of Runx3 still remains unclear. In this study, we show that Runx3 is a physiologically interacting substrate of Pak1. We identified the site of phosphorylation in Runx3 as Threonine 209 by mass spectrometry analysis and site-directed mutagenesis, and further confirmed the same with a site-specific antibody. Results from our functional studies showed that Threonine 209 phosphorylation in Runx3 alters its subcellular localization by protein mislocalization from the nucleus to the cytoplasm and subsequently converses its biological functions. This was further supported by in vivo tumor xenograft studies in nude mouse models which clearly demonstrated that PANC-28 cells transfected with the Runx3-T209E clone showed high tumorigenic potential as compared with other clones. Our results from clinical samples also suggest that Threonine 209 phosphorylation by Pak1 could be a potential therapeutic target and of great clinical relevance with implications for Runx3 inactivation in cancer cells where Runx3 is known to be oncogenic. The findings presented in this study provide evidence of Runx3-Threonine 209 phosphorylation as a molecular switch in dictating the tissue-specific dualistic functions of Runx3 for the first time.
Cbfb is a cotranscription factor that forms a heterodimer with Runx proteins Runx1, Runx2, and Runx3. It is required for fetal liver hematopoiesis and skeletal development. Cbfb has two functional isoforms, Cbfb1 and Cbfb2, which are formed by alternative splicing. To address the biological functions of these isoforms in skeletal development, we examined Cbfb1(-/-) and Cbfb2(-/-) mouse embryos. Intramembranous and endochondral ossification was retarded and chondrocyte and osteoblast differentiation was inhibited in Cbfb2(-/-) embryos but not in Cbfb1(-/-) embryos. Cbfb2 mRNA was upregulated in calvariae, limbs, livers, thymuses, and hearts of Cbfb1(-/-) embryos but Cbfb1 mRNA was not in those of Cbfb2(-/-) embryos, and the total amount of Cbfb1 and Cbfb2 mRNA in Cbfb1(-/-) embryos was similar to that in wild-type embryos but was severely reduced in Cbfb2(-/-) embryos. The absolute numbers of Cbfb2 mRNA in calvariae, limbs, livers, thymuses, and brains in wild-type embryos were about three times higher than those of Cbfb1 in the respective tissue. The levels of Runx proteins were reduced in calvariae, limbs, and primary osteoblasts from Cbfb2(-/-) embryos, but the reduction in Runx2 protein was very mild. Furthermore, the amounts of Runx proteins and Cbfb in Cbfb2(-/-) embryos differed similarly among skeletal tissues, livers, and thymuses, suggesting that Runx proteins and Cbfb are mutually required for their stability. Although Cbfb1(-/-) embryos developed normally, Cbfb1 induced chondrocyte and osteoblast differentiation and enhanced DNA binding of Runx2 more efficiently than Cbfb2. Our results indicate that modulations in the relative levels of the isoforms may adjust transcriptional activation by Runx2 to appropriate physiological levels. Cbfb2 was more abundant, but Cbfb1 was more potent for enhancing Runx2 activity. Although only Cbfb2 loss generated overt skeletal phenotypes, both may play major roles in skeletal development with functional redundancy. © 2016 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
In B cells infected by the cancer-associated Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), RUNX3 and RUNX1 transcription is manipulated to control cell growth. The EBV-encoded EBNA2 transcription factor (TF) activates RUNX3 transcription leading to RUNX3-mediated repression of the RUNX1 promoter and the relief of RUNX1-directed growth repression. We show that EBNA2 activates RUNX3 through a specific element within a -97 kb super-enhancer in a manner dependent on the expression of the Notch DNA-binding partner RBP-J. We also reveal that the EBV TFs EBNA3B and EBNA3C contribute to RUNX3 activation in EBV-infected cells by targeting the same element. Uncovering a counter-regulatory feed-forward step, we demonstrate EBNA2 activation of a RUNX1 super-enhancer (-139 to -250 kb) that results in low-level RUNX1 expression in cells refractory to RUNX1-mediated growth inhibition. EBNA2 activation of the RUNX1 super-enhancer is also dependent on RBP-J. Consistent with the context-dependent roles of EBNA3B and EBNA3C as activators or repressors, we find that these proteins negatively regulate the RUNX1 super-enhancer, curbing EBNA2 activation. Taken together our results reveal cell-type-specific exploitation of RUNX gene super-enhancers by multiple EBV TFs via the Notch pathway to fine tune RUNX3 and RUNX1 expression and manipulate B-cell growth.
The presence or absence of MLH1 methylation may critically affect the heterogeneity of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) with the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP). Here, we investigated the differential characteristics of CIMP-high (CIMP-H) CRCs according to MLH1 methylation status. To further confirm the MLH1-dependent features in CIMP-H CRC, an independent analysis was performed using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). In our CIMP-H CRC samples, MLH1-methylated tumors were characterized by older patient age, proximal colonic location, mucinous histology, intense lymphoid reactions, RUNX3/SOCS1 promoter methylation, BRAF mutations, and microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) status. By contrast, MLH1-unmethylated tumors were associated with earlier age of onset, increased distal colorectal localization, adverse pathologic features, and KRAS mutations. In the TCGA dataset, the MLH1-silenced CIMP-H CRC demonstrated proximal location, MSI-H status, hypermutated phenotype, and frequent BRAF mutations, but the MLH1-non-silenced CIMP-H CRC was significantly associated with high frequencies of KRAS and APC mutations. In conclusion, the differential nature of CIMP-H CRCs depends primarily on the MLH1 methylation status. Based on the current knowledge, the sessile serrated adenoma/polyp may be the major precursor of MLH1-methylated CIMP-H CRCs, whereas MLH1-unmethylated CIMP-H CRCs may develop predominantly from KRAS-mutated traditional serrated adenomas and less commonly from BRAF-mutated traditional serrated adenomas and/or sessile serrated adenomas/polyps.
Significant differences in the aberrant methylation of genes exist among various histological types of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), which includes adenocarcinoma (AC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). Different chemotherapeutic regimens should be administered to the two NSCLC subtypes due to their unique genetic and epigenetic profiles. The purpose of this meta-analysis was to generate a list of differentially methylated genes between AC and SCC. Our meta-analysis encompassed 151 studies on 108 genes among 12946 AC and 10243 SCC patients. Our results showed two hypomethylated genes (CDKN2A and MGMT) and three hypermethylated genes (CDH13, RUNX3 and APC) in ACs compared with SCCs. In addition, our results showed that the pooled specificity and sensitivity values of CDH13 and APC were higher than those of CDKN2A, MGMT and RUNX3. Our findings might provide an alternative method to distinguish between the two NSCLC subtypes.
BACKGROUND PROMOTER: hypermethylation plays a major role in cancer through transcriptional silencing of critical genes. The aim of our study is to evaluate the methylation status of these genes in the colonic mucosa without dysplasia or adenocarcinoma at the different steps of sporadic and UC-related carcinogenesis and to investigate the possible role of genomic methylation as a marker of CRC.RESULTS: The expression of Dnmts 1 and 3A was significantly increased in UC-related carcinogenesis compared to non inflammatory colorectal carcinogenesis. In non-neoplastic colonic mucosa, the number of methylated genes resulted significantly higher in patients with CRC and in those with UC-related CRC compared to the HC and UC patients and patients with dysplastic lesion of the colon. The number of methylated genes in non-neoplastic colonic mucosa predicted the presence of CRC with good accuracy either in non inflammatory and inflammatory related CRC.METHODS: Colonic mucosal samples were collected from healthy subjects (HC) (n = 30) and from patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) (n = 29), UC and dysplasia (n = 14), UC and cancer (n = 10), dysplastic adenoma (n = 14), and colon adenocarcinoma (n = 10). DNA methyltransferases-1, -3a, -3b, mRNA expression were quantified by real time qRT-PCR. The methylation status of CDH13, APC, MLH1, MGMT1 and RUNX3 gene promoters was assessed by methylation-specific PCR.CONCLUSIONS: Methylation status of APC, CDH13, MGMT, MLH1 and RUNX3 in the non-neoplastic mucosa may be used as a marker of CRC: these preliminary results could allow for the adjustment of a patient's surveillance interval and to select UC patients who should undergo intensive surveillance.
This study identifies promoter methylation status of RUNX3 in 77 LSCC patient tissues and their paired adjacent healthy tissues. Hypermethylation percentage RUNX3 occurred in LSCC samples was significantly higher than that in normal tissues, as well as associated with suppression of RUNX3 expression, TNM classification of malignant tumors stage, lymph node metastasis and poor overall survival rate. Reduced methylation and increased expression of RUNX3 genes in vitro was observed and decreased cell migration was further confirmed following 5-azacytidine treatment. RUNX 3 promoter hypermethylation can lead to down-regulation of RUNX3 in LSCC cancerous tissue.
Type 1 innate lymphocytes comprise two developmentally divergent lineages, type 1 helper innate lymphoid cells (hILC1s) and conventional NK cells (cNKs). All type 1 innate lymphocytes (ILCs) express the transcription factor T-bet, but cNKs additionally express Eomesodermin (Eomes). We show that deletion of Eomes alleles at the onset of type 1 ILC maturation using NKp46-Cre imposes a substantial block in cNK development. Formation of the entire lymphoid and nonlymphoid type 1 ILC compartment appears to require the semiredundant action of both T-bet and Eomes. To determine if Eomes is sufficient to redirect hILC1 development to a cNK fate, we generated transgenic mice that express Eomes when and where T-bet is expressed using Tbx21 locus control to drive expression of Eomes codons. Ectopic Eomes induces cNK-like properties across the lymphoid and nonlymphoid type 1 ILC compartments. Subsequent to their divergent lineage specification, hILC1s and cNKs thus possess substantial developmental plasticity.
BACKGROUND: Smoking is a risk factor for many human diseases. DNA methylation has been related to smoking, but genome-wide methylation data for smoking in Chinese populations is limited.OBJECTIVES: We aimed to investigate epigenome-wide methylation in relation to smoking in a Chinese population.METHODS: We measured the methylation levels at > 485,000 CpG sites (CpGs) in DNA from leukocytes using a methylation array and conducted a genome-wide meta-analysis of DNA methylation and smoking in a total of 596 Chinese participants. We further evaluated the associations of smoking-related CpGs with internal polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) biomarkers and their correlations with the expression of corresponding genes.RESULTS: We identified 318 CpGs whose methylation levels were associated with smoking at a genome-wide significance level (false discovery rate < 0.05), among which 161 CpGs annotated to 123 genes were not associated with smoking in recent studies of Europeans and African Americans. Of these smoking-related CpGs, methylation levels at 80 CpGs showed significant correlations with the expression of corresponding genes (including RUNX3, IL6R, PTAFR, ANKRD11, CEP135 and CDH23), and methylation at 15 CpGs was significantly associated with urinary 2-hydroxynaphthalene, the most representative internal monohydroxy-PAH biomarker for smoking.CONCLUSION: We identified DNA methylation markers associated with smoking in a Chinese population, including some markers that were also correlated with gene expression. Exposure to naphthalene, a byproduct of tobacco smoke, may contribute to smoking-related methylation.CITATION: Zhu X, Li J, Deng S, Yu K, Liu X, Deng Q, Sun H, Zhang X, He M, Guo H, Chen W, Yuan J, Zhang B, Kuang D, He X, Bai Y, Han X, Liu B, Li X, Yang L, Jiang H, Zhang Y, Hu J, Cheng L, Luo X, Mei W, Zhou Z, Sun S, Zhang L, Liu C, Guo Y, Zhang Z, Hu FB, Liang L, Wu T. 2016. Genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation and cigarette smoking in Chinese. Environ Health Perspect 124:966-973; http://dx.doi.org/10.1289/ehp.1509834.
MicroRNAs are increasingly reported as tumour suppressors that regulate gene expression after transcription. Our results demonstrated that miR-4295 is overexpression in glioma tissues and its level is significantly correlated with clinical stage. We also found that miR-4295 inhibited the cell G0/G1 arrest and apoptosis leading to promoted cell proliferation and activity. The murine modelling study revealed that female nude mice injected with U87/anti-miR-4295 exhibit subcutaneous tumours in the right groin. Compared with anti-NC, the tumour volume was significantly decreased in anti-miR-4295 treatment group. Furthermore, we confirmed miR-4295 mediates the expression of RUNX3 by targeting its 3'untranslation region. In addition, N-myc protein also could bind to the promoter of pri-miR-4295 and inhibit the expression of RUNX3 in glioma cells. These results validate a pathogenetic role of a miR-4295 in gliomas and establish a potentially regulatory and signalling pathway involving N-myc/miR-4295/RUNX3 in gliomas.
Metastasis remains the major driver of mortality in patients with cancer. The multistep metastatic process starts with the dissemination of tumor cells from a primary site and leading to secondary tumor development in an anatomically distant location. Although significant progress has been made in understanding the molecular characteristics of metastasis, many questions remain regarding the intracellular mechanisms governing transition through the various metastatic stages. The runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a downstream effector of the transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) signaling pathway, and has critical roles in the regulation of cell death by apoptosis, and in angiogenesis, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), cell migration and invasion. RUNX3 functions as a bona fide initiator of carcinogenesis by linking the Wnt oncogenic and TGF-β tumor suppressive pathways. RUNX3 is frequently inactivated in human cancer cell lines and cancer samples by hemizygous deletion of the Runx3 gene, hypermethylation of the Runx3 promoter, or cytoplasmic sequestration of RUNX3 protein. Inactivation of RUNX3 makes it a putative tumor suppressor in human neoplasia. In the present review, we summarize the proposed roles of RUNX3 in metastasis and, when applicable, highlight the mechanism by which they function.
BACKGROUND: The CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) is a promising biomarker for irinotecan/5-fluorouracil/leucovorin chemotherapy for stage III colon cancer. In the present study, we evaluated whether CIMP is a prognostic biomarker for standard-of-care oxaliplatin-based adjuvant therapy.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The HE6C/05 trial randomized 441 patients with stage II-III colorectal adenocarcinoma to adjuvant XELOX (capecitabine, oxaliplatin) or modified FOLFOX6 (5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin). The primary and secondary objectives were disease-free and overall survival, respectively. CIMP status was determined using the DNA methylation status of CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1. Cox models were used to assess the association of CIMP with survival.RESULTS: Of the 293 available tumors, 28 (9.6%) were CIMP(+). On univariate Cox regression analysis, no significant differences in survival were observed between individuals with CIMP(+) versus CIMP(-) tumors. CIMP(+) tumors were more likely to be right-sided and BRAF mutant (χ(2), P < .001). In the multivariate model, TNM stage II (vs. stage III) was associated with a reduced risk of relapse (hazard ratio [HR], 0.25; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.11-0.55; Wald's P < .001), and a colon primary located on the left side and earlier TNM stage were associated with a reduced risk of death (HR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.28-0.81; P = .006; and HR, 0.22; 95% CI, 0.10-0.49; P < .001, respectively).CONCLUSION: In the present exploratory analysis, CIMP did not appear to be a prognostic biomarker in oxaliplatin-treated patients with resected colorectal cancer.
Comment on    Oncoscience. 34:2856.
In metastatic breast cancer, the acquisition of malignant traits has been associated with the increased rate of cell growth and division, mobility, resistance to chemotherapy, and invasiveness. While screening for the key regulators of cancer metastasis, we observed that neurotrophin receptor TrkB is frequently overexpressed in breast cancer patients and breast cancer cell lines. Additionally, we demonstrate that TrkB expression and clinical breast tumor pathological phenotypes show significant correlation. Moreover, TrkB expression was significantly upregulated in basal-like, claudin-low, and metaplastic breast cancers from a published microarray database and in patients with triple-negative breast cancer, which is associated with a higher risk of invasive recurrence. Interestingly, we identified a new TrkB-regulated functional network that is important for the tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer. We demonstrated that TrkB plays a key role in regulation of the tumor suppressors Runx3 and Keap1. A markedly increased expression of Runx3 and Keap1 was observed upon knockdown of TrkB, treatment with a TrkB inhibitor, and in TrkB kinase dead mutants. Additionally, the inhibition of PI3K/AKT activation significantly induced Runx3 and Keap1 expression. Furthermore, we showed that TrkB enhances metastatic potential and induces proliferation. These observations suggest that TrkB plays a key role in tumorigenicity and metastasis of breast cancer cells through suppression of Runx3 or Keap1 and that it is a promising target for future intervention strategies for preventing tumor metastasis and cancer chemoprevention.
Liposarcoma (LPS) is the most common type of soft tissue sarcoma accounting for 20% of all adult sarcomas. Due to absence of clinically effective treatment options in inoperable situations and resistance to chemotherapeutics, a critical need exists to identify novel therapeutic targets. We analyzed LPS genomic landscape using SNP arrays, whole exome sequencing and targeted exome sequencing to uncover the genomic information for development of specific anti-cancer targets. SNP array analysis indicated known amplified genes (MDM2, CDK4, HMGA2) and important novel genes (UAP1, MIR557, LAMA4, CPM, IGF2, ERBB3, IGF1R). Carboxypeptidase M (CPM), recurrently amplified gene in well-differentiated/de-differentiated LPS was noted as a putative oncogene involved in the EGFR pathway. Notable deletions were found at chromosome 1p (RUNX3, ARID1A), chromosome 11q (ATM, CHEK1) and chromosome 13q14.2 (MIR15A, MIR16-1). Significantly and recurrently mutated genes (false discovery rate < 0.05) included PLEC (27%), MXRA5 (21%), FAT3 (24%), NF1 (20%), MDC1 (10%), TP53 (7%) and CHEK2 (6%). Further, in vitro and in vivo functional studies provided evidence for the tumor suppressor role for Neurofibromin 1 (NF1) gene in different subtypes of LPS. Pathway analysis of recurrent mutations demonstrated signaling through MAPK, JAK-STAT, Wnt, ErbB, axon guidance, apoptosis, DNA damage repair and cell cycle pathways were involved in liposarcomagenesis. Interestingly, we also found mutational and copy number heterogeneity within a primary LPS tumor signifying the importance of multi-region sequencing for cancer-genome guided therapy. In summary, these findings provide insight into the genomic complexity of LPS and highlight potential druggable pathways for targeted therapeutic approach.
Influenza A virus (IAV) targets airway epithelial cells and exploits the host cell machinery to replicate, causing respiratory illness in annual epidemics and pandemics of variable severity. The high rate of antigenic drift (viral mutation) and the putative antigenic shift (reassortant strains) have raised the need to find the host cell inducible factors modulating IAV replication and its pathogenesis to develop more effective antiviral treatment. In this study, we found for the first time that transcription factor Runx3, a developmental regulator and tumor suppressor, was induced by IAV H1N1 and H3N2, viral RNA, a synthetic analog of viral double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, and type-II interferon-γ (IFNγ) in human airway epithelial cells. Whereas Runx3 was essentially not induced by type-I IFNα and type-III IFNλ, we show that Runx3 induction by IAV infection and viral RNA is mediated through the innate immune receptor MDA5 and the IκB kinase-β-NF-κB pathway. Moreover, we provide substantial evidence indicating that Runx3 plays a crucial role in airway epithelial cell apoptosis induced by IAV infection and dsRNA through the activation of extrinsic and intrinsic apoptosis pathways. Thus, we have identified Runx3 as an inducible and important transcription factor modulating IAV-induced host epithelial cell apoptosis.
Prenatal and postnatal cigarette smoke exposure enhances the risk of developing asthma. Despite this as well as other smoking related risks, 11% of women still smoke during pregnancy. We hypothesized that cigarette smoke exposure during prenatal development generates long lasting differential methylation altering transcriptional activity that correlates with disease. In a house dust mite (HDM) model of allergic airway disease, we measured airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) and airway inflammation between mice exposed prenatally to cigarette smoke (CS) or filtered air (FA). DNA methylation and gene expression were then measured in lung tissue. We demonstrate that HDM-treated CS mice develop a more severe allergic airway disease compared to HDM-treated FA mice including increased AHR and airway inflammation. While DNA methylation changes between the two HDM-treated groups failed to reach genome-wide significance, 99 DMRs had an uncorrected p-value < 0.001. 6 of these 99 DMRs were selected for validation, based on the immune function of adjacent genes, and only 2 of the 6 DMRs confirmed the bisulfite sequencing data. Additionally, genes near these 6 DMRs (Lif, Il27ra, Tle4, Ptk7, Nfatc2, and Runx3) are differentially expressed between HDM-treated CS mice and HDM-treated FA mice. Our findings confirm that prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke is sufficient to modify allergic airway disease; however, it is unlikely that specific methylation changes account for the exposure-response relationship. These findings highlight the important role in utero cigarette smoke exposure plays in the development of allergic airway disease.
We analyzed a possible association between RUNX3 gene polymorphisms and haplotypes in Mexican patients with colorectal cancer (CRC). Genomic DNA samples were obtained from the peripheral blood of 176 Mexican patients with CRC at diagnosis and from 195 individuals that formed the control group. The polymorphisms were detected by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism. Association was estimated by odds ratio (OR). The haplotypes and linkage disequilibrium were established using the Arlequin v3.5 software. We found that the RUNX3 polymorphisms analyzed were in Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium. The RUNX3 rs2236852 AA genotype and A allele showed association with CRC (OR = 0.39, 95%CI = 0.21-0.73, P < 0.01; OR = 0.65, 95%CI = 0.49-0.87, P < 0.01, respectively), while the rs6672420, rs11249206, and rs760805 polymorphisms did not show significant association with CRC. The TA haplotype (SNPs rs760805 and rs2236852) showed an increased risk for CRC (OR = 2.52, 95%CI = 1.47-4.30, P < 0.001). In conclusion, we found that the AA genotype and A allele of rs2236852 polymorphism confer a decreased CRC risk, while the TA haplotype appears to increase the risk of CRC development in Mexican patients.
The pathological mechanisms underlying the development of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) are unclear and its diagnosis remains a process of exclusion. Currently, there are no known specific biomarkers for ITP to support differential diagnosis and treatment decisions. Profiling of serum proteins may be valuable for identifying such biomarkers. Sera from 46 patients with primary chronic ITP and 34 healthy blood donors were analysed using a microarray of 755 antibodies. We identified 161 differentially expressed proteins. In addition to oncoproteins and tumour-suppressor proteins, including apoptosis regulator BCL2, breast cancer type 1 susceptibility protein (BRCA1), Fanconi anaemia complementation group C (FANCC) and vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGFA), we detected six anti-nuclear autoantibodies in a subset of ITP patients: anti-PCNA, anti-SmD, anti-Ro/SSA60, anti-Ro/SSA52, anti-La/SSB and anti-RNPC antibodies. This finding may provide a rational explanation for the association of ITP with malignancies and other autoimmune diseases. While RUNX1mRNA expression in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of patients was significantly downregulated, an accumulation of RUNX1 protein was observed in the platelets of ITP patients. This may indicate dysregulation of RUNX1 expression in PBMC and megakaryocytes and may lead to an imbalanced immune response and impaired thrombopoiesis. In conclusion, we provide novel insights into the pathogenic mechanisms of ITP that warrant further exploration.
Normal cell growth is characterized by a regulated epigenetic program that drives cellular activities such as gene transcription, DNA replication, and DNA damage repair. Perturbation of this epigenetic program can lead to events such as mis-regulation of gene transcription and diseases such as cancer. To begin to understand the epigenetic program correlated to the development of melanoma, we performed a novel quantitative mass spectrometric analysis of histone post-translational modifications mis-regulated in melanoma cell culture as well as patient tumors. Aggressive melanoma cell lines as well as metastatic melanoma were found to have elevated histone H3 Lys(27) trimethylation (H3K27me3) accompanied by overexpressed methyltransferase EZH2 that adds the specific modification. The altered epigenetic program that led to elevated H3K27me3 in melanoma cell culture was found to directly silence transcription of the tumor suppressor genes RUNX3 and E-cadherin. The EZH2-mediated silencing of RUNX3 and E-cadherin transcription was also validated in advanced stage human melanoma tissues. This is the first study focusing on the detailed epigenetic mechanisms leading to EZH2-mediated silencing of RUNX3 and E-cadherin tumor suppressors in melanoma. This study underscores the utility of using high resolution mass spectrometry to identify mis-regulated epigenetic programs in diseases such as cancer, which could ultimately lead to the identification of biological markers for diagnostic and prognostic applications.
The gastrointestinal tract forms the largest surface in our body with constantly being exposed to various antigens, which provides unique microenvironment for the immune system in the intestine. Accordingly, the gut epithelium harbors the most T lymphocytes in the body as intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs), which are phenotypically and functionally heterogeneous populations, distinct from the conventional mature T cells in the periphery. IELs arise either from pre-committed thymic precursors (natural IELs) or from conventional CD4 or CD8αβ T cells in response to peripheral antigens (induced IELs), both of which commonly express CD8α homodimers (CD8αα). Although lineage commitment to either conventional CD4 T helper (Th) or cytotoxic CD8αβ T cells as well as their respective co-receptor expression are mutually exclusive and irreversible process, CD4 T cells can be redirected to the CD8 IELs with high cytolytic activity upon migration to the gut epithelium. Recent reports show that master transcription factors for CD4 and CD8 T cells, ThPOK (Th-inducing BTB/ POZ-Kruppel-like factor) and Runx3 (Runt related transcription factor 3), respectively, are the key regulators for re-programming of CD4 T cells to CD8 lineage in the intestinal epithelium. This review will focus on the unique differentiation process of IELs, particularly lineage re-commitment of CD4 IELs.
BACKGROUND: IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells have been implicated in autoimmune disorders, but their properties in humans are known only partially. The molecular mechanisms and external factors that govern IFN-γ-producing Th17-cell bias are incompletely understood. The present work was to clarify whether (i) IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells are present in the peripheral circulation of patients with coronary atherosclerosis (CA); (ii) high mobility group box (HMGB)1 in circulation is associated with IFN-γ-producing Th17-cell bias.METHODS: Thirty-six patients (17 females and 19 males; 45-84 years) diagnosed as having atherosclerosis after coronary angiography for suspected or known CA were included the study cohort. Samples of peripheral blood were collected from healthy volunteers and patients, and classical tests (flow cytometry, RT-qPCR) were used to measure blood components.RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Our results clearly demonstrated that HMGB1 were up-regulated in different progressive CA patients: 5.38 ± 1.48 ng/ml, 6.30 ± 1.53 ng/ml and 5.86 ± 1.12 ng/ml vs1.45 ± 0.65 ng/ml for only atherosclerotic plaque (AP), atherosclerotic plaque and some plaque rupture, no thrombosis (PR), plaque rupture and accompanying thrombosis (TH) and volunteers, respectively, p < 0.05. The frequency of IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells was 2.33 ± 0.58%, 1.93 ± 0.2% and 2.21 ± 0.65% vs 0.38 ± 0.21% for AP, PR, TH and volunteers, p < 0.05, respectively. Furthermore, HMGB1 contributed to IFN-γ-producing Th17-cell bias by controlling expression of T-bet and RUNX3. We demonstrated, for the first time, that HMGB1 is a potential inducer of IFN-γ-producing Th17-cell bias, and that IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells might be one of the pathogenic factors in atherosclerosis.
Accumulating data reveal that microRNAs are involved in gastric carcinogenesis. To date, no information was reported about the function and regulatory mechanism of miR-532-5p in human gastric cancer (GC). Thus, our study aims to determine the role and regulation of miR-532-5p in GC. Here, we found that transient and stable overexpression of miR-532-5p dramatically increased the potential of colony formation and migration of GC cells, decreased the percentage of cells in G1 phase and cell apoptosis in vitro, and increased the weight of mice lungs and number of lung xenografts in vivo. Gain-of-function, loss-of-function and luciferase activity assays demonstrated that miR-532-5p negatively regulated the expression of RUNX3 and its targets directly. We also found that miR-532-5p level was negatively correlated with RUNX3 gene expression in various GC cell lines. Our results indicate that miR-532-5p functions as an oncogenic miRNA by promoting cell growth, migration and invasion in human GC cells.
Internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutations of the FLT3 gene (FLT3-ITD) are well known to correlate with a poor prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We previously reported that FLT3-ITD confers resistance to cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C), a key cytotoxic agent in AML treatments. In order to elucidate the detailed molecular mechanisms underlying the Ara-C resistance induced by FLT3-ITD, we performed a microarray gene expression analysis of the human leukemic cell line K562 transduced with FLT3-ITD (K562/FLT3-ITD) and identified RUNX3 as a downstream target of FLT3-ITD. The transcriptional induction of the RUNX3 expression by FLT3-ITD was noted on a Luciferase assay. The knockdown of the RUNX3 expression in the K562/FLT3-ITD cells increased the sensitivity to Ara-C, and the exogenous expression of RUNX3 per se resulted in the enhancement of Ara-C resistance in the K562 cells. A relationship between the FLT3-ITD-induced RUNX3 expression and Ara-C resistance was also observed in AML cells with an endogenous FLT3-ITD expression. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that RUNX3 is a prerequisite for Ara-C resistance via FLT3-ITD signaling.
Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) 2 belongs to the transforming growth factor β (TGFβ) superfamily of cytokines and growth factors. While it plays important roles in embryo morphogenesis and organogenesis, BMP2 is also critical to bone and cartilage formation. Protein structure and function have been remarkably conserved throughout evolution and BMP2 transcription has been proposed to be tightly regulated, although few data is available. In this work we report the cloning and functional analysis of gilthead seabream BMP2 promoter. As in other vertebrates, seabream BMP2 gene has a 5′ non-coding exon, a feature already present in DPP gene, the fruit fly ortholog of vertebrate BMP2 gene, and maintained throughout evolution. In silico analysis of seabream BMP2 promoter revealed several binding sites for bone and cartilage related transcription factors (TFs) and their functionality was evaluated using promoter-luciferase constructions and TF-expressing vectors. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) was shown to negatively regulate BMP2 transcription and combination with the core binding factor β (CBFβ) further reduced transcriptional activity of the promoter. Although to a lesser extent, myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C) had also a negative effect on the regulation of BMP2 gene transcription, when associated with SRY (sex determining region Y)-box 9 (SOX9b). Finally, v-ets avian erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog 1 (ETS1) was able to slightly enhance BMP2 transcription. Data reported here provides new insights toward the better understanding of the transcriptional regulation of BMP2 gene in a bone and cartilage context.
Bladder cancer (BC) cells spontaneously exfoliated in the urine of patients with BC. Detection of exfoliated tumor cells has clinical significance in cancer therapy because it would enable earlier non-invasive screening, diagnosis, or prognosis of BC. In this research, a method for analyzing genetic abnormalities of BC cells collected from urine samples was developed. Target BC cells were isolated by filtration. To find conditions that achieve high cell recovery, we investigated the effects of filter type, concentration of fixative, and flow rate. Cells captured on the filter membrane were completely retrieved within 15s. Selected genes for genomic analysis, mutated genes (FGFR3, TERT and HRAS) and methylated genes (ALX4, RALL3, MT1A, and RUNX3) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and subsequently, were identified by microchip electrophoresis (MCE). Analysis by MCE reduces the risk of contamination, sample consumption, and analysis time. Our developed approach is economical, effectively isolates cancer cells, and permits flexible molecular characterization, all of which make this approach a promising method for non-invasive BC detection.
OBJECTIVES: To identify the functional basis for the genetic association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP), upstream of the RUNX3 promoter, with ankylosing spondylitis (AS).METHODS: We performed conditional analysis of genetic association data and used ENCODE data on chromatin remodelling and transcription factor (TF) binding sites to identify the primary AS-associated regulatory SNP in the RUNX3 region. The functional effects of this SNP were tested in luciferase reporter assays. Its effects on TF binding were investigated by electrophoretic mobility gel shift assays and chromatin immunoprecipitation. RUNX3 mRNA levels were compared in primary CD8+ T cells of AS risk and protective genotypes by real-time PCR.RESULTS: The association of the RUNX3 SNP rs4648889 with AS (p<7.6×10(-14)) was robust to conditioning on all other SNPs in this region. We identified a 2 kb putative regulatory element, upstream of RUNX3, containing rs4648889. In reporter gene constructs, the protective rs4648889 'G' allele increased luciferase activity ninefold but significantly less activity (4.3-fold) was seen with the AS risk 'A' allele (p≤0.01). The binding of Jurkat or CD8+ T-cell nuclear extracts to the risk allele was decreased and IRF4 recruitment was reduced. The AS-risk allele also affected H3K4Me1 histone methylation and associated with an allele-specific reduction in RUNX3 mRNA (p<0.05).CONCLUSION: We identified a regulatory region upstream of RUNX3 that is modulated by rs4648889. The risk allele decreases TF binding (including IRF4) and reduces reporter activity and RUNX3 expression. These findings may have important implications for understanding the role of T cells and other immune cells in AS.
A proper regulation of the innate immune response is fundamental to keep the immune system in check and avoid a chronic status of inflammation. As they act as negative modulators of TLR signaling pathways, miRNAs have been recently involved in the control of the inflammatory response. However, their role in the context of endotoxin tolerance is just beginning to be explored. We here show that miR-146b is upregulated in human monocytes tolerized by LPS, IL-10, or TGFβ priming and demonstrate that its transcription is driven by STAT3 and RUNX3, key factors downstream of IL-10 and TGFβ signaling. Our study also found that IFNγ, known to revert LPS tolerant state, inhibits miR-146b expression. Finally, we provide evidence that miR-146b levels have a profound effect on the tolerant state, thus candidating miR-146b as a molecular mediator of endotoxin tolerance.
A section of gastric cancers presents nuclear β-catenin accumulation correlated with H. pylori infection. H. pylori stimulate Wnt/β-catenin pathway by activating oncogenic c-Met and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), or by inhibiting tumor suppressor Runx3 and Trefoil factor 1 (TFF1). H. pylori also trigger Wnt/β-catenin pathway by recruiting macrophages. Moreover, Wnt/β-catenin pathway is found involved in H. pylori-induced gastric cancer stem cell generation. Recently, by using gastroids, researchers have further revealed that H. pylori induce gastric epithelial cell proliferation through β-catenin. These findings indicate that Wnt/β-catenin is an oncogenic pathway activated by H. pylori. Therefore, this pathway is a potential therapy target for H. pylori-related gastric cancer.
Subsets of innate lymphoid cells (ILCs) reside in the mucosa and regulate immune responses to external pathogens. While ILCs can be phenotypically classified into ILC1, ILC2 and ILC3 subsets, the transcriptional control of commitment to each ILC lineage is incompletely understood. Here we report that the transcription factor Runx3 was essential for the normal development of ILC1 and ILC3 cells but not of ILC2 cells. Runx3 controlled the survival of ILC1 cells but not of ILC3 cells. Runx3 was required for expression of the transcription factor RORγt and its downstream target, the transcription factor AHR, in ILC3 cells. The absence of Runx3 in ILCs exacerbated infection with Citrobacter rodentium. Therefore, our data establish Runx3 as a key transcription factor in the lineage-specific differentiation of ILC1 and ILC3 cells.
In the present study, the methylation and protein expression of the runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) gene was detected in sporadic colorectal cancer, colonic adenoma and normal colon tissue to evaluate their clinical significance in colorectal carcinogenesis. A total of 34 colonic cancer specimens, 34 colonic adenoma specimens and 34 normal colonic tissue specimens were used in the study. The CpG island methylation status of the Runx3 gene was detected by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction and the protein expression of Runx3 was detected by immunohistochemistry. The results showed that the rates of methylation of the Runx3 gene in colonic cancer and colonic adenomas were significantly higher than that in the normal colonic tissue (23.5, 20.6 vs. 0.0%; P<0.05). There was no significant difference in the percentage of methylation of the Runx3 gene between colonic adenoma and colonic cancer (P>0.05). The positive percentage of Runx3 protein expression was significantly lower in colonic cancer compared with colonic adenoma and normal tissue (17.7 vs. 61.8, 76.5%; P<0.05). Methylation of the promoter CpG islands of the Runx3 gene is an important genetic event of colon carcinogenesis and may be associated with an altered protein level of Runx3.
This study investigated the effect of HCV core protein on the proliferation of hepatocytes and hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCC), the influence of HCV core protein on HCC apoptosis induced by the chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin, and the mechanism through which HCV core protein acts as a potential oncoprotein in HCV-related HCC by measuring the levels of NR4A1 and Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), which are associated with tumor suppression and chemotherapy resistance. In the present study, PcDNA3.1-core and RUNX3 siRNA were transfected into LO2 and HepG2 cells using Lipofectamine 2000. LO2-core, HepG2-core, LO2-RUNX3 (low) and control cells were treated with different concentrations of cisplatin for 72 h, and cell proliferation and apoptosis were assayed using the CellTiter 96(®)Aqueous Non-Radioactive Cell Proliferation Assay Kit. Western blot and real time PCR analyses were used to detect NR4A1, RUNX3, smad7, Cyclin D1 and BAX. Confocal microscopy was used to determine the levels of NR4A1 in HepG2 and HepG2-core cells. The growth rate of HepG2-core cells was considerably greater than that of HepG2 cells. HCV core protein increased the expression of cyclin D1 and decreased the expressions of NR4A1 and RUNX3. In LO2 - RUNX3 (low), the rate of cell proliferation and the level of cisplatin resistance were the same as in the LO2 -core. These results suggest that HCV core protein decreases the sensitivity of hepatocytes to cisplatin by inhibiting the expression of NR4A1 and promoting the expression of smad7, which negatively regulates the TGF-β pathway. This effect results in down regulation of RUNX3, a target of the TGF-β pathway. Taken together, these findings indicate that in hepatocytes, HCV core protein increases drug resistance and inhibits cell apoptosis by inhibiting the expressions of NR4A1 and RUNX3.
Mature microRNAs (miRNAs) are 21 to 23 nucleotide noncoding RNA molecules that can downregulate multiple gene expression by mRNA degradation or translational repression. miRNAs are considered to play important roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation during mammalian development. The Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) expression and activity are frequently downregulated by various mechanisms in gastric cancer. We have reported that RUNX3 inactivation is crucial for early tumorigenesis. In this study, we investigated the role of miRNAs targeting RUNX3 in early tumorigenesis. miR-130a and miR-495 upregulated under hypoxic conditions that bind to the RUNX3 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) were identified in gastric cancer cells by using microarray analysis and bioinformatics programs. Combination of miR-130a and miR-495 inhibited RUNX3 expression at the protein level, but not at the mRNA level. miR-130a and miR-495 significantly inhibited the RUNX3-3'UTR-luciferase activity. Combination of miR-130a and miR-495 significantly decreased apoptosis determined by Annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide staining and flow cytometric analysis, and the expression of Bim in SNU484 gastric cancer cells. In addition, p21 and Bim, RUNX3 target genes, were completely downregulated by the combination of miR-130a and miR-495. Using matrigel plug assay, we found that antagomiRs specific for miR-130a and miR-495 significantly reduced angiogenesis in vivo. In conclusion, targeting miR-130a and miR-495 could be a potential therapeutics to recover RUNX3 expression under hypoxic conditions and in early tumorigenic progression.
BACKGROUND: Whole genome microarray meta-analyses of 1030 kidney, heart, lung and liver allograft biopsies identified a common immune response module (CRM) of 11 genes that define acute rejection (AR) across different engrafted tissues. We evaluated if the CRM genes can provide a molecular microscope to quantify graft injury in acute rejection (AR) and predict risk of progressive interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy (IFTA) in histologically normal kidney biopsies.METHODS: Computational modeling was done on tissue qPCR based gene expression measurements for the 11 CRM genes in 146 independent renal allografts from 122 unique patients with AR (n = 54) and no-AR (n = 92). 24 demographically matched patients with no-AR had 6 and 24 month paired protocol biopsies; all had histologically normal 6 month biopsies, and 12 had evidence of progressive IFTA (pIFTA) on their 24 month biopsies. Results were correlated with demographic, clinical and pathology variables.RESULTS: The 11 gene qPCR based tissue CRM score (tCRM) was significantly increased in AR (5.68 ± 0.91) when compared to STA (1.29 ± 0.28; p < 0.001) and pIFTA (7.94 ± 2.278 versus 2.28 ± 0.66; p = 0.04), with greatest significance for CXCL9 and CXCL10 in AR (p <0.001) and CD6 (p<0.01), CXCL9 (p<0.05), and LCK (p<0.01) in pIFTA. tCRM was a significant independent correlate of biopsy confirmed AR (p < 0.001; AUC of 0.900; 95% CI = 0.705-903). Gene expression modeling of 6 month biopsies across 7/11 genes (CD6, INPP5D, ISG20, NKG7, PSMB9, RUNX3, and TAP1) significantly (p = 0.037) predicted the development of pIFTA at 24 months.CONCLUSIONS: Genome-wide tissue gene expression data mining has supported the development of a tCRM-qPCR based assay for evaluating graft immune inflammation. The tCRM score quantifies injury in AR and stratifies patients at increased risk of future pIFTA prior to any perturbation of graft function or histology.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a well-documented tumour suppressor that is frequently inactivated in gastric cancer. Here, we define a novel mechanism by which RUNX3 exerts its tumour suppressor activity involving the TEAD-YAP complex, a potent positive regulator of proliferative genes. We report that the TEAD-YAP complex is not only frequently hyperactivated in liver and breast cancer, but also confers a strong oncogenic activity in gastric epithelial cells. The increased expression of TEAD-YAP in tumour tissues significantly correlates with poorer overall survival of gastric cancer patients. Strikingly, RUNX3 physically interacts with the N-terminal region of TEAD through its Runt domain. This interaction markedly reduces the DNA-binding ability of TEAD that attenuates the downstream signalling of TEAD-YAP complex. Mutation of RUNX3 at Arginine 122 to Cysteine, which was previously identified in gastric cancer, impairs the interaction between RUNX3 and TEAD. Our data reveal that RUNX3 acts as a tumour suppressor by negatively regulating the TEAD-YAP oncogenic complex in gastric carcinogenesis.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Helicobacter pylori cytotoxin-associated gene A (CagA) has been suggested to be involved in the inactivation of Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), a known gastric carcinoma tumor suppressor gene. It remains unclear how H. pylori CagA initiates or maintains RUNX3 promoter methylation and inactivates its protein expression in gastric carcinoma.METHODS: RUNX3 promoter methylation status, RUNX3 expression, and H. pylori CagA were investigated in 76 sample pairs of gastric carcinoma tissue. The patients' medical records were reviewed. The association between RUNX3 methylation or loss of RUNX3 expression and clinicopathologic variables according to H. pylori CagA status were investigated.RESULTS: In gastric carcinoma patients with H. pylori CagA-positive infection, RUNX3 methylation did not show association with lymphatic invasion, venous invasion, and TNM stages. However RUNX3 methylation was observed more frequently in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma and signet ring cell carcinoma (77.8% vs. 20.0%, p=0.023) in early stage. In gastric carcinoma patients with H. pylori CagA-positive infection, loss of RUNX3 expression did not show association with lymphatic invasion, venous invasion, and TNM stages. However loss of RUNX3 expression was observed more frequently in early gastric carcinoma than in advanced gastric carcinoma (84.2% vs. 75.0%, p=0.51), but this difference was not significant.CONCLUSIONS: In gastric carcinoma patients with H. pylori CagA-positive infection, RUNX3 methylation or loss of RUNX3 expression did not show correlation with lymphovascular invasion and TNM stages. In early gastric carcinoma patients with H. pylori CagA-positive infection, RUNX3 methylation was observed more in poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma and signet ring cell carcinoma.
Human ageing affects the immune system resulting in an overall decline in immunocompetence. Although all immune cells are affected during aging, the functional capacity of T cells is most influenced and is linked to decreased responsiveness to infections and impaired differentiation. We studied age-related changes in DNA methylation and gene expression in CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from younger and older individuals. We observed marked difference between T cell subsets, with increased number of methylation changes and higher methylome variation in CD8+ T cells with age. The majority of age-related hypermethylated sites were located at CpG islands of silent genes and enriched for repressive histone marks. Specifically, in CD8+ T cell subset we identified strong inverse correlation between methylation and expression levels in genes associated with T cell mediated immune response (LGALS1, IFNG, CCL5, GZMH, CCR7, CD27 and CD248) and differentiation (SATB1, TCF7, BCL11B and RUNX3). Our results thus suggest the link between age-related epigenetic changes and impaired T cell function.
Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) are the primary sources of extracellular matrix (ECM) in normal and fibrotic liver. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARγ) maintains HSCs in a quiescent state, and its downregulation induces HSC activation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can induce PPARγ mRNA degradation, but the mechanism by which miRNAs regulate PPARγ in rat HSCs is unclear. This study aimed to investigate some miRNAs which putatively bind to the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of PPARγ mRNA, and increase expression of ECM genes in rat HSCs. In carbon tetrachloride injection (CCl4) and common bile duct ligation (CBDL) liver fibrosis models, miRNAs miR-130a, miR-130b, miR-301a, miR-27b and miR-340 levels were found to be increased and PPARγ expression decreased. Overexpression of miR-130a and miR-130b enhanced cell proliferation by involving Runx3. MiR-130a and miR-130b decreased PPARγ expression by targeting the 3'-UTR of PPARγ mRNA in rat HSC-T6 cells. Transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) may mediate miR-130a and miR-130b overexpression, PPARγ downregulation, and ECM genes overexpression in cell culture. These findings suggest that miR-130a and miR-130b are involved in downregulation of PPARγ in liver fibrosis.
Th-inducing Pox virus and zinc finger/Krüppel-like factor (ThPOK) is a key commitment factor for CD4(+) lineage T cells and is essential for the maintenance of CD4 lineage integrity; thus, the expression of ThPOK has to be tightly controlled. In this article, we demonstrate that Myc-associated zinc finger-related factor (MAZR) and Runt-related transcription factor 1 (Runx1) together repressed ThPOK in preselection double-positive thymocytes, whereas MAZR acted in synergy with Runx3 in the repression of ThPOK in CD8(+) T cells. Furthermore, MAZR-Runx1 and MAZR-Runx3 double-mutant mice showed enhanced derepression of Cd4 in double-negative thymocytes and in CD8(+) T cells in comparison with Runx1 or Runx3 single-deficient mice, respectively, indicating that MAZR modulates Cd4 silencing. Thus, our data demonstrate developmental stage-specific synergistic activities between MAZR and Runx/core-binding factor β (CBFβ) complexes. Finally, retroviral Cre-mediated conditional deletion of MAZR in peripheral CD8(+) T cells led to the derepression of ThPOK, thus showing that MAZR is also part of the molecular machinery that maintains a repressed state of ThPOK in CD8(+) T cells.
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) frequently metastasizes to bone, which is associated with significant morbidity and a dismal prognosis. RUNX3 functions as a tumour suppressor in lung cancer and loss of expression occurs more frequently in invasive lung adenocarcinoma than in pre-invasive lesions. Here, we show that RUNX3 and RUNX3-regulated chemokines are linked to NSCLC-mediated bone resorption. Notably, the receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (RANKL)/osteoprotegerin (OPG) ratio, an index of osteoclastogenic stimulation, was significantly increased in human osteoblastic cells treated with conditioned media derived from RUNX3-knockdown NSCLC cells. We aimed to identify RUNX3-regulated factors that modify the osteoblastic RANKL/OPG ratio and found that RUNX3 knockdown led to CCL5 up-regulation and down-regulation of CCL19 and CXCL11 in NSCLC cells. Tumour size was noticeably increased and more severe osteolytic lesions were induced in the calvaria and tibiae of mice that received RUNX3-knockdown cells. In response to RUNX3 knockdown, serum and tissue levels of CCL5 increased, whereas CCL19 and CXCL11 decreased. Furthermore, CCL5 increased the proliferation, migration, and invasion of lung cancer cells in a dose-dependent manner; however, CCL19 and CXCL11 did not show any significant effects. The RANKL/OPG ratio in osteoblastic cells was increased by CCL5 but reduced by CCL19 and CXCL11. CCL5 promoted osteoclast differentiation, but CCL19 and CXCL11 reduced osteoclastogenesis in RANKL-treated bone marrow macrophages. These findings suggest that RUNX3 and related chemokines are useful markers for the prediction and/or treatment of NSCLC-induced bone destruction.
Promoter hypermethylation of the runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene is associated with increased risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Oxidative stress plays a vital role in both carcinogenesis and progression of HCC. However, whether oxidative stress and RUNX3 hypermethylation in HCC have a cause- and-effect relationship is not known. In this study, plasma protein carbonyl and total antioxidant capacity (TAC) in patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV)-associated HCC (n=60) and age-matched healthy subjects (n=80) was determined. RUNX3 methylation in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of subjects was measured by methylation-specific PCR. Effect of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on induction of RUNX3 hypermethylation in HCC cells was investigated. Plasma protein carbonyl content was significantly higher, whereas plasma TAC was significantly lower, in HCC patients than healthy controls. Based on logistic regression, increased plasma protein carbonyl and decreased plasma TAC were independently associated with increased risk for HCC. PBMC RUNX3 methylation in the patient group was significantly greater than in the healthy group. RUNX3 methylation in hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-treated HepG2 cells was significantly higher than in untreated control cells. In conclusion, increase in oxidative stress in Thai patients with HBV-associated HCC was demonstrated. This oxidative increment was independently associated with an increased risk for HCC development. RUNX3 in PBMC was found to be hypermethylated in the HCC patients. In vitro, RUNX3 hypermethylation was experimentally induced by H2O2. Our findings suggest that oxidative stress is a cause of RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation in HCC cells.
To determine the efficacy of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel plus cisplatin (Taxol+DDP, TP therapy) for stage IIA esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and to investigate the expression of RUNX3 in lymph node metastasis-negative esophageal cancer and its relationship with medical prognosis, a retrospective summary of clinical treatment of 143 cases of stage IIA esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients was made. The patients were divided into two groups, a surgery alone control group (52 patients) and a chemotherapy group that received postoperative TP therapy (91 patients). The disease-free and 5 year survival rates were compared between the groups and a multivariate analysis of prognostic factors was performed. The same analysis was performed for cases classified as RUNX3 positive and negative, with post-operative specimens assessed by immunohistochemistry. Although the disease-free and 5 year survival rates in control and chemotherapy groups did not significantly differ and there was no significance in RUNX3 negative cases, postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in the chemotherapy group was shown to improve disease-free and 5 year survival rate compared to the control group in RUNX3 positive cases. On Cox regression multivariate analysis, postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy (P<0.01) was an independent prognostic factor for RUNX3 positive cases, suggesting that postoperative TP may be effective as adjuvant chemotherapy for stage IIA esophageal cancer patients with RUNX3 positive lesions.
Psoriasis vulgaris is a common, chronic inflammatory skin disease with a complex etiology involving genetic risk factors and environmental triggers. Here we describe the many known genetic predispositions of psoriasis with respect to immune genes and their encoded pathways in psoriasis susceptibility. These genes span an array of functions that involve antigen presentation (HLA-Cw6, ERAP1, ERAP2, MICA), the IL-23 axis (IL12Bp40, IL23Ap19, IL23R, JAK2, TYK2), T-cell development and T-cells polarization (RUNX1, RUNX3, STAT3, TAGAP, IL4, IL13), innate immunity (CARD14, c-REL, TRAF3IP2, DDX58, IFIH1), and negative regulators of immune responses (TNIP1, TNFAIP3, NFKBIA, ZC3H12C, IL36RN, SOCS1). The contribution of some of these gene products to psoriatic disease has also been revealed in recent years through targeting of key immune components, such as the Th17/IL-23 axis which has been highly successful in disease treatment. However, many of the genetic findings involve immune genes with less clear roles in psoriasis pathogenesis. This is particularly the case for those genes involved in innate immunity and negative regulation of immune specific pathways. It is possible that risk alleles of these genes decrease the threshold for the initial activation of the innate immune response. This could then lead to the onslaught of the pathogenic adaptive immune response known to be active in psoriatic skin. However, precisely how these various genes affect immunobiology need to be determined and some are speculated upon in this review. These novel genetic findings also open opportunities to explore novel therapeutic targets and potentially the development of personalized medicine, as well as discover new biology of human skin disease.
The developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis states that adverse early life exposures can have lasting, detrimental effects on lifelong health. Exposure to maternal cigarette smoking during pregnancy is associated with morbidity and mortality in offspring, including increased risks for miscarriage, stillbirth, low birth weight, preterm birth, asthma, obesity, altered neurobehavior, and other conditions. Maternal cigarette smoking during pregnancy interferes with placental growth and functioning, and it has been proposed that this may occur through the disruption of normal and necessary placental epigenetic patterns. Epigenome-wide association studies have identified a number of differentially methylated placental genes that are associated with maternal smoking during pregnancy, including RUNX3, PURA, GTF2H2, GCA, GPR135, and HKR1. The placental methylation status of RUNX3 and NR3C1 has also been linked to adverse infant outcomes, including preterm birth and low birth weight, respectively. Candidate gene analyses have also found maternal smoking-associated placental methylation differences in the NR3C1, CYP1A1, HTR2A, and HSD11B2 genes, as well as in the repetitive elements LINE-1 and AluYb8. The differential methylation patterns of several genes have been confirmed to also exhibit altered gene expression patterns, including CYP1A1, CYP19A1, NR3C1, and HTR2A. Placental methylation patterns associated with maternal smoking during pregnancy may be largely gene-specific and tissue-specific and, to a lesser degree, involve global changes. It is important for future research to investigate the mechanistic roles that these differentially methylated genes may play in mediating the association between maternal smoking during pregnancy and disease in later life, as well as to elucidate the potential influence of emerging tobacco product use during pregnancy, including the use of electronic cigarettes, on placental epigenetics.
BACKGROUND: The 39 mammalian Hox genes show problematic patterns of functional overlap. In order to more fully define the developmental roles of Hox genes it is necessary to remove multiple combinations of paralogous and flanking genes. In addition, the downstream molecular pathways regulated by Hox genes during limb development remain incompletely delineated.RESULTS: In this report we examine limb development in mice with frameshift mutations in six Hox genes, Hoxa9,10,11 and Hoxd9,10,11. The mice were made with a novel recombineering method that allows the simultaneous targeting of frameshift mutations into multiple flanking genes. The Hoxa9,10,11 (-/-) /Hoxd9,10,11 (-/-) mutant mice show a reduced ulna and radius that is more severe than seen in Hoxa11 (-/-)/Hoxd11 (-/-) mice, indicating a minor role for the flanking Hox9,10 genes in zeugopod development, as well as their primary function in stylopod development. The mutant mice also show severe reduction of Shh expression in the zone of polarizing activity, and decreased Fgf8 expression in the apical ectodermal ridge, thereby better defining the roles of these specific Hox genes in the regulation of critical signaling centers during limb development. Importantly, we also used laser capture microdissection coupled with RNA-Seq to characterize the gene expression programs in wild type and mutant limbs. Resting, proliferative and hypertrophic compartments of E15.5 forelimb zeugopods were examined. The results provide an RNA-Seq characterization of the progression of gene expression patterns during normal endochondral bone formation. In addition of the Hox mutants showed strongly altered expression of Pknox2, Zfp467, Gdf5, Bmpr1b, Dkk3, Igf1, Hand2, Shox2, Runx3, Bmp7 and Lef1, all of which have been previously shown to play important roles in bone formation.CONCLUSIONS: The recombineering based frameshift mutation of the six flanking and paralogous Hoxa9,10,11 and Hoxd9,10,11 genes provides a resource for the analysis of their overlapping functions. Analysis of the Hoxa9,10,11 (-/-) /Hoxd9,10,11 (-/-) mutant limbs confirms and extends the results of previous studies using mice with Hox mutations in single paralogous groups or with entire Hox cluster deletions. The RNA-Seq analysis of specific compartments of the normal and mutant limbs defines the multiple key perturbed pathways downstream of these Hox genes.
OBJECTIVE: Resistance to platinum-based therapeutic agents represents a major hurdle in the treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). There is an urgent need to better understand the underlying mechanisms. Here, we investigated the role of RUNX3 in carboplatin resistance in EOC cells.METHODS: Expression of RUNX3 was determined in human EOC cell line A2780s (cisplatin-sensitive) and A2780cp (cisplatin-resistant), human ovarian surface epithelium (OSE) and primary EOC cells. The effects of RUNX3 expression on sensitivity to carboplatin were determined in A2780s and A2780cp cells using neutral red uptake and clonogenic assays. Carboplatin-induced apoptosis was determined by measuring cleaved PARP using Western blotting. The expression of cellular inhibitor of apoptosis protein-2 (cIAP2) and its regulation by RUNX3 were assessed by quantitative RT-PCR and Western blotting.RESULTS: The expression of RUNX3 was elevated in A2780cp cells compared to A2780s cells and in EOC tissues from chemoresistant patients compared to those from chemosensitive patients. Overexpression of RUNX3 rendered A2780s cells more resistant to carboplatin, whereas inhibition of RUNX3 increased sensitivity to carboplatin in A2780cp cells. Inhibition of RUNX3 potentiated carboplatin-induced apoptosis in A2780cp cells as demonstrated by more pronounced PARP cleavage. Interestingly, the expression of cIAP2 was elevated in A2780cp cells compared to A2780s cells. Overexpression of RUNX3 increased cIAP2 expression in A2780s cells, whereas inhibition of RUNX3 decreased cIAP2 expression and potentiated carboplatin-induced decrease of cIAP2 in A2780cp cells.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX3 contributes to carboplatin resistance in EOC cells and may hold promise as a therapeutic target to treat EOC and/or a biomarker to predict chemoresistance.
Treatment of epithelial ovarian cancer consists of surgery plus platinum-taxane based chemotherapy. Neither prognostic nor predictive serum or tissue markers except BRCA1/2 mutations are available thus precluding individualized treatment. Aim of this study is the identification and validation of DNA-methylation markers with prognostic value. Genome-wide array analyses were used to determine methylation patterns in groups of serous EOC with different outcome (PFS < vs. > 3 years, each n = 6) but comparable clinical parameters. Two hundred and twenty differentially methylated regions in tumor tissue of patients with short vs. long PFS (106 hypo- and 114 hypermethylated regions) were identified. Thirty-five of 37 selected CpG islands were validated by MSP using the same samples as for microarray analyses. Six of these regions were analyzed by targeted next-generation bisulfite-sequencing confirming array and MSP results. Validation experiments with an enlarged patient group of Type II EOC samples (PFS <3 years n = 30; >3 years n = 18) revealed the CpG island of RUNX3 as significantly more often methylated in patients with short PFS (10/30 vs. 0/18; p < 0.01). Marker combinations with significantly different methylation frequencies in patient groups reached an increased sensitivity with equal specificity (RUNX3+CAMK2N1; sens 40%; spec 100%; p < 0.01). RUNX3/CAMK2N1 methylation-positive patients of the array-independent subset (n = 36) showed a significantly lower PFS (p < 0.01) but no other difference in clinical parameters compared to methylation-negative patients. Genome-wide methylation analyses reliably identified markers of potentially prognostic value. Hypermethylation of RUNX3/CAMK2N1 is associated with poor clinical outcome in Type II EOC, also after macroscopic complete resection.
The transcription factor Runx3 promotes differentiation of naive CD4(+) T cells into type-1 effector T (TH1) cells at the expense of TH2. TH1 cells as well as CD8(+) T cells express a subset-specific Runx3 transcript from a distal promoter, which is necessary for high protein expression. However, all T cell subsets, including naive CD4(+) T cells and TH2 cells, express a distinct transcript of Runx3 that is derived from a proximal promoter and that produces functional protein in neurons. Therefore, accumulation of RUNX3 protein generated from the proximal transcript needs to be repressed at the posttranscriptional level to preserve CD4(+) T cell capability of differentiating into TH2 cells. In this article, we show that expression of RUNX3 protein from the proximal Runx3 transcript is blocked at the level of translational initiation in T cells. A coding sequence for the proximal Runx3 mRNA is preceded by a nonoptimal context sequence for translational initiation, known as the Kozak sequence, and thus generates protein at low efficiencies and with multiple alternative translational initiations. Editing the endogenous initiation context to an "optimal" Kozak sequence in a human T cell line resulted in enhanced translation of a single RUNX3 protein derived from the proximal transcript. Furthermore, RUNX3 protein represses transcription from the proximal promoter in T cells. These results suggest that nonpermissive expression of RUNX3 protein is restricted at the translational level, and that the repression is further enforced by a transcriptional regulation for maintenance of diverse developmental plasticity of T cells for different effector subsets.
The first decade of Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) has uncovered a wealth of disease-associated variants. Two important derivations will be the translation of this information into a multiscale understanding of pathogenic variants and leveraging existing data to increase the power of existing and future studies through prioritization. We explore edge prediction on heterogeneous networks--graphs with multiple node and edge types--for accomplishing both tasks. First we constructed a network with 18 node types--genes, diseases, tissues, pathophysiologies, and 14 MSigDB (molecular signatures database) collections--and 19 edge types from high-throughput publicly-available resources. From this network composed of 40,343 nodes and 1,608,168 edges, we extracted features that describe the topology between specific genes and diseases. Next, we trained a model from GWAS associations and predicted the probability of association between each protein-coding gene and each of 29 well-studied complex diseases. The model, which achieved 132-fold enrichment in precision at 10% recall, outperformed any individual domain, highlighting the benefit of integrative approaches. We identified pleiotropy, transcriptional signatures of perturbations, pathways, and protein interactions as influential mechanisms explaining pathogenesis. Our method successfully predicted the results (with AUROC = 0.79) from a withheld multiple sclerosis (MS) GWAS despite starting with only 13 previously associated genes. Finally, we combined our network predictions with statistical evidence of association to propose four novel MS genes, three of which (JAK2, REL, RUNX3) validated on the masked GWAS. Furthermore, our predictions provide biological support highlighting REL as the causal gene within its gene-rich locus. Users can browse all predictions online (http://het.io). Heterogeneous network edge prediction effectively prioritized genetic associations and provides a powerful new approach for data integration across multiple domains.
SOX9 is a transcriptional activator required for chondrogenesis, and SOX5 and SOX6 are closely related DNA-binding proteins that critically enhance its function. We use here genome-wide approaches to gain novel insights into the full spectrum of the target genes and modes of action of this chondrogenic trio. Using the RCS cell line as a faithful model for proliferating/early prehypertrophic growth plate chondrocytes, we uncover that SOX6 and SOX9 bind thousands of genomic sites, frequently and most efficiently near each other. SOX9 recognizes pairs of inverted SOX motifs, whereas SOX6 favors pairs of tandem SOX motifs. The SOX proteins primarily target enhancers. While binding to a small fraction of typical enhancers, they bind multiple sites on almost all super-enhancers (SEs) present in RCS cells. These SEs are predominantly linked to cartilage-specific genes. The SOX proteins effectively work together to activate these SEs and are required for in vivo expression of their associated genes. These genes encode key regulatory factors, including the SOX trio proteins, and all essential cartilage extracellular matrix components. Chst11, Fgfr3, Runx2 and Runx3 are among many other newly identified SOX trio targets. SOX9 and SOX5/SOX6 thus cooperate genome-wide, primarily through SEs, to implement the growth plate chondrocyte differentiation program.
Epigenetic changes play significant roles in cancer development. UHRF1, an epigenetic regulator, has been shown to be overexpressed and to coordinate tumor suppressor gene (TSG) silencing in several cancers. In a previous study, we found that UHRF1 promoted gastric cancer (GC) invasion and metastasis. However, the role and underlying mechanism of UHRF1 in GC carcinogenesis remain largely unknown. In the present study, we investigated UHRF1 expression and function in GC proliferation and explored its downstream regulatory mechanism. The results demonstrated that UHRF1 overexpression was an independent and significant predictor of GC prognosis. Downregulation of UHRF1 suppressed GC proliferation and growth in vitro and in vivo, and UHRF1 upregulation showed opposite effects. Furthermore, downregulation of UHRF1 reactivated 7 TSGs, including CDX2, CDKN2A, RUNX3, FOXO4, PPARG, BRCA1 and PML, via promoter demethylation. These results provide insight into the GC proliferation process, and suggest that targeting UHRF1 represents a new therapeutic approach to block GC development.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are abnormally expressed in various types of cancer. miR-130a expression and function in gastric cancer has yet to be elucidated. The aim of the present study was to identify the miR-130a expression and function in gastric cancer. miR-130a expression was examined in gastric cancer cell lines and tissues by RT-qPCR. The diagnostic and prognostic significance of miR-130a in gastric cancer was analyzed by receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve and Kaplan-Meier analysis. miR130a expression was identified and the diagnostic significance in the serum of gastric cancer patients and healthy controls was analyzed using RT-qPCR and ROC curves, respectively. A target gene for miR-130a was identified using luciferase reporter assays, and gastric cancer tumorigenesis ability was examined by 3-(4,5-dimethylthazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) and Transwell assays. The results showed that miR‑130a was upregulated in gastric cancer. The low-miR-130a group had significantly improved overall survival compared to the high-miR-130a group. Furthermore, the expression of miR‑130a in plasma in gastric cancer patients was upregulated and diagnostic value for gastric cancer of miR-130a is more effective than the tumor markers carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA-199. miR-130a directly targeted runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and promoted gastric cancer tumorigenesis by targeting RUNX3. miR-130a may therefore be a useful marker for the diagnosis and prognosis of gastric cancer. Additionally, miR-130a was identified as an oncogene that promotes gastric cancer tumorigenesis by targeting RUNX3.
BACKGROUND: Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in premature infants is a predominantly secondary occurrence to intrauterine inflammation/infection and postpartum mechanical ventilation; in recent years, an association with epigenetics has also been found. DNA methylation, catalyzed by DNA methyl transferases (DNMTs), and tri-methylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3), mediated by the methyltransferase, Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2), are some of the most commonly found modifications in epigenetics. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is associated with pulmonary epithelial and vascular development and regulates expression at the post-transcriptional level by DNA methylation through DNMT1 or DNMT3b. However, the involvements of these epigenetic factors in the occurrence of BPD are, as yet, unclear.METHODS: Newborn rats were randomly assigned to a model, hyperoxia (85 % O2) or control, normoxia group (21 % O2). Lung tissues and alveolar type 2 (AT2) epithelial cells were collected between 1-14 days. The expression of DNMTs, and EZH2 was detected by immunohistochemistry, Western blot and real-time PCR. The percentage of DNA methylation and H3K27me3 levels in the RUNX3 promoter region was measured by bisulfite sequencing PCR and chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. RUNX3 protein and mRNA expression in AT2 cells was also measured after inhibition using the DNA methylation inhibitor, 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine, the H3K27me3 inhibitor, JMJD3, and the EZH2 inhibitor, DZNep.RESULTS: Compared with the control group, RUNX3 protein was downregulated and DNMT3b and EZH2 were highly expressed in lung tissues and AT2 cells of the model group (P < 0.05), while high DNA methylation and H3K27me3 modifications were present in the RUNX3 promoter region, in lung tissues of the model group (P < 0.05). Following hyperoxia in the model group, JMJD3 and DZNep significantly reversed the hyperoxia-induced down-regulation of RUNX3 expression in AT2 cells (P < 0.05), more so than 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (P < 0.05).CONCLUSIONS: 1) DNA methylation and H3K27 trimethylation are present in the BPD model; 2) RUNX3 down-regulation is attributed to both DNMT3b-catalyzed DNA methylation and EZH2-catalyzed histone methylation.
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an autoimmune disease, characterized by dysregulation of cellular immunity. Previous studies demonstrated that immune imbalance between Th1 and Th2 was associated with the pathogenesis of ITP. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a member of the runt domain-containing family of transcription factors and plays an important role in the regulation of T cell differentiation into Th1 cells. Whether RUNX3 was involved in the pathogenesis of ITP remains unclear. In this study, 47 active ITP patients, 18 ITP with remission and 26 age and gender matched healthy control were included. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated from ITP and control for isolation of RNA and plasma which were used to measure mRNA level of RUNX3 and T-box transcription factor (T-bet) by quantitative real-time PCR and interferon γ (IFN-γ) plasma level by ELISA. Meanwhile, protein was also extracted from PBMCs for Western blot analysis of RUNX3 expression. Our results showed a significantly higher expression of RUNX3, T-bet and plasma level of IFN-γ in active ITP patients compared to control. No differences were observed between ITP with remission and control. Furthermore, a positive correlation of RUNX3 with T-bet was found in active ITP patients. In conclusion, aberrant expression of RUNX3 was associated with the pathogenesis of ITP and therapeutically targeting it might be a novel approach in ITP treatment.
BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence indicates that RUNX3 is a candidate tumor suppressor in several types of human tumors, including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the correlation between RUNX3 hypermethylation and clinicopathological characteristics of NSCLC remains unclear. Here, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate the effects of RUNX3 hypermethylation on the incidence of NSCLC and clinicopathological characteristics.METHODS: A detailed literature search was made using Medline, Embase and Web of Science for related research publications written in English. The methodological quality of the studies was evaluated. The data were extracted and assessed independently by two reviewers. Analysis of pooled data was performed. The odds ratio (OR) and hazard ratio were calculated and summarized.RESULTS: Final analysis of 911 NSCLC patients from 13 eligible studies was performed. We observed that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in NSCLC than in normal lung tissue; the pooled OR from seven studies including 361 NSCLC and 345 normal lung tissue (OR 7.08, confidence interval 4.12-12.17, P<0.00001). RUNX3 hypermethylation may also be associated with pathological types. The pooled OR was obtained from eleven studies including 271 squamous cell carcinoma and 389 adenocarcinoma (OR 0.41, confidence interval 0.19-0.89, P=0.02), which indicated that RUNX3 hypermethylation is significantly higher in adenocarcinoma that in squamous cell carcinoma. We did not find that RUNX3 hypermethylation was correlated with clinical stage or differentiated status. However, NSCLC patients with RUNX3 hypermethylation had a lower survival rate than those without RUNX3 hypermethylation.CONCLUSION: The results of this meta-analysis suggest that RUNX3 hypermethylation is associated with an increased risk and worse survival in NSCLC. RUNX3 hypermethylation, which induces inactivation of the RUNX3 gene, plays an important role in lung carcinogenesis and clinical outcome.
Somatosensation is divided into proprioception and cutaneous sensation. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons project their fibers toward peripheral targets including muscles and skin, and centrally to the spinal cord. Proprioceptive DRG neurons transmit information from muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs to the spinal cord. We previously showed that Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) is expressed in these neurons and their projections to the ventral spinal cord and muscle spindles are lost in Runx3-deficient (Runx3(-/-) ) mouse embryos. Although Runx3 is likely to contribute to the fate decision and projection of proprioceptive DRG neurons, the precise roles for Runx3 in these phenomena are unknown. To identify genes regulated by Runx3 in embryonic DRGs, we performed microarray analyses using cDNAs isolated from wild-type and Runx3(-/-) DRGs of embryonic day (E) 12.5 and selected two transcript variants of the tyrosine kinase receptor C (TrkC) gene. These variants, Ntrk3 variant 1 (Ntrk3-v1) and variant 2 (Ntrk3-v2), encode full-length and truncated receptors of neurotrophin-3, respectively. Using double in situ hybridization, we found that most of Ntrk3-v1 mRNA expression in E14.5 DRGs depended on Runx3 but that more than half of Ntrk3-v2 mRNA one were expressed in a Runx3-independent manner. Furthermore, our data revealed that the rate of Ntrk3-v1 and Ntrk3-v2 colocalization in DRGs changed from E14.5 to E18.5. Together, our data suggest that Runx3 may play a crucial role in the development of DRGs by regulating the expression of Ntrk3 variants and that DRG neurons expressing Ntrk3-v1 but not Ntrk3-v2 may differentiate into proprioceptive ones.
Core binding factor β (Cbfβ) is a partner protein of Runx family transcription factors with minimally characterized function in cartilage. Here we address the role of Cbfβ in cartilage by generating chondrocyte-specific Cbfβ-deficient mice (Cbfb(Δch/Δch) ) from Cbfb-floxed mice crossed with mice expressing Cre from the Col2a1 promoter. Cbfb(Δch/Δch) mice died soon after birth and exhibited delayed endochondral bone formation, shorter appendicular skeleton length with increased proliferative chondrocytes, and nearly absent hypertrophic chondrocyte zones. Immunohistochemical and quantitative real-time PCR analyses showed that the number and size of proliferative chondrocytes increased and the expression of chondrocyte maturation markers at the growth plates, including Runx2, osterix, and osteopontin, significantly diminished in Cbfb(Δch/Δch) mice compared to wild type mice. With regard to signaling pathways, both PTHrP-Ihh and BMP signaling were compromised in Cbfb(Δch/Δch) mice. Mechanistically, Cbfβ deficiency in chondrocytes caused a decrease of protein levels of Runx transcription factors by accelerating polyubiquitination-mediated proteosomal degradation in vitro. Indeed, Runx2 and Runx3, but not Runx1, decreased in Cbfb(Δch/Δch) mice. Collectively, these findings indicate that Cbfβ plays a critical role for chondrocyte differentiation through stabilizing Runx2 and Runx3 proteins in cartilage.
Previously, we reported that the transcription factor Nanog, which maintains the self-renewal of embryonic stem cells (ESCs), promotes the osteogenic differentiation of the mouse mesenchymal cell line C3H10T1/2 through a genome reprogramming process. In the present study, to clarify the mechanism underlying the multipotency of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and to develop a novel approach to bone regenerative medicine, we attempted to identify the downstream effectors of Nanog in promoting osteogenic differentiation of mouse mesenchymal cells. We demonstrated that Runx1 and Runx3 are the downstream effectors of Nanog, especially in the early and intermediate osteogenic differentiation of the mouse mesenchymal cell line C3H10T1/2.
Comment on    Cell. 2015 Jun 4;161(6):1345-60.
The RNA binding motif protein 38 (RBM38, also known as RNPC1) plays a pivotal role in regulating a wide range of biological processes, from cell proliferation and cell cycle arrest to cell myogenic differentiation. It was originally recognized as an oncogene, and was frequently found to be amplified in prostate, ovarian and colorectal cancer, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, colon carcinoma, esophageal cancer, dog lymphomas and breast cancer. In the present study, the complete RNPC1 gene was identified in a number of vertebrate genomes, suggesting that RNPC1 exists in all types of vertebrates, including fish, amphibians, birds and mammals. In the different genomes, the gene had a similar 4 exon/3 intron organization, and all the genetic loci were syntenically conserved. The phylogenetic tree demonstrated that the RNPC1 gene from the mammalian, bird, reptile and teleost lineage formed a species-specific cluster. A total of 34 functionally relevant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including 14 SNPs causing missense mutations, 8 exonic splicing enhancer SNPs and 12 SNPs causing nonsense mutations, were identified in the human RNPC1 gene. RNPC1 was found to be expressed in bladder, blood, brain, breast, colorectal, eye, head and neck, lung, ovarian, skin and soft tissue cancer. In 14 of the 94 tests, an association between RNPC1 gene expression and cancer prognosis was observed. We found that the association between the expression of RNPC1 and prognosis varied in different types of cancer, and even in the same type of cancer from the different databases used. This suggests that the function of RNPC1 in these tumors may be multidimensional. The sex determining region Y (SRY)-box 5 (Sox5), runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), CCAAT displacement protein 1 (CUTL1), v-rel avian reticuloendotheliosis viral oncogene homolog (Rel)A, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ isoform 2 (PPARγ2) and activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) regulatory transcription factor binding sites were identified in the upstream (promoter) region of the RNPC1 gene, and may thus be involved in the effects of RNPC1 in tumors.
Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory and T cell-meditated autoimmune skin disease. A recent study found that Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a susceptibility gene for psoriasis; however, its biological role in the disease has not been studied. RUNX3 was predicted to be the target gene of microRNA-138 (miR-138). The current research was designed to delineate the mechanism of miR-138 in regulating psoriasis via targeting RUNX3. In this study, we found that the expression of RUNX3 is increased significantly while the expression of miR-138 decreased significantly in CD4(+) T cells from psoriasis patients. Moreover, the luciferase report confirmed the targeting reaction between miR-138 and RUNX3. After transfection with the miR-138 inhibitor into CD4(+) T cells from healthy controls, we found that the inhibition of miR-138 increases RUNX3 expression and increased the ratio of Th1/Th2. Furthermore, the miR-138 mimic was transfected into CD4(+) T cells from psoriasis patients. The results showed that the overexpression of miR-138 inhibits RUNX3 expression and decreased the ratio of Th1/Th2 in CD4(+) T cells. Taken together, our study suggests that increased miR-138 regulates the balance of Th1/Th2 through inhibiting RUNX3 expression in psoriasis, providing a potential therapeutic target for psoriasis.
©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the inflammatory response in giant cell arteritis (GCA) by characterising the DNA methylation pattern within the temporal artery microenvironment.METHODS: Twelve patients with non-equivocal histological evidence for GCA and 12 age-matched, sex-matched and ethnicity-matched controls with normal biopsies were studied. DNA was extracted from the affected portions of temporal artery tissue in patients with GCA and from histologically confirmed normal arteries in controls. Genome-wide DNA methylation status was evaluated using the Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip Array. Differentially methylated loci between affected and unaffected arterial tissues were identified, and subsequent bioinformatic analysis performed. Immunohistochemistry was used to examine tissue expression patterns in temporal artery biopsies.RESULTS: We identified 1555 hypomethylated CG sites (853 genes) in affected temporal artery tissue from patients with GCA compared with normal controls. Gene ontology enrichment analysis of hypomethylated genes revealed significant representation in T cell activation and differentiation pathways, including both TH1 and TH17 signatures. Our DNA methylation data suggest a role for increased activity of the calcineurin/nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT) signalling pathway in GCA, confirmed by immunohistochemistry showing increased expression and nuclear localisation of NFAT1. NFAT signalling downstream targets such as interleukin (IL)-21/IL-21R and CD40L were overexpressed in GCA-affected arteries. Further, proinflammatory genes including TNF, LTA, LTB, CCR7, RUNX3, CD6, CD40LG, IL2, IL6, NLRP1, IL1B, IL18, IL21, IL23R and IFNG were hypomethylated in the cellular milieu of GCA arteries.CONCLUSIONS: We characterised the inflammatory response in GCA-affected arteries using 'epigenetic immunophenotyping' and identified molecules and pathways relevant to disease pathogenesis in GCA.
Comment in    Cell. 2015 Jun 4;161(6):1245-6.
Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) is a group of secondary and organized lymphoid tissue that develops at different mucosal surfaces. Peyer's patches (PPs), nasopharynx-associated lymphoid tissue (NALT), and tear duct-associated lymphoid tissue (TALT) are representative MALT in the small intestine, nasal cavity, and lacrimal sac, respectively. A recent study has shown that transcriptional regulators of core binding factor (Cbf) β2 and promotor-1-transcribed Runt-related transcription factor 1 (P1-Runx1) are required for the differentiation of CD3-CD4+CD45+ lymphoid tissue inducer (LTi) cells, which initiate and trigger the developmental program of PPs, but the involvement of this pathway in NALT and TALT development remains to be elucidated. Here we report that Cbfβ2 plays an essential role in NALT and TALT development by regulating LTi cell trafficking to the NALT and TALT anlagens. Cbfβ2 was expressed in LTi cells in all three types of MALT examined. Indeed, similar to the previous finding for PPs, we found that Cbfβ2-/- mice lacked NALT and TALT lymphoid structures. However, in contrast to PPs, NALT and TALT developed normally in the absence of P1-Runx1 or other Runx family members such as Runx2 and Runx3. LTi cells for NALT and TALT differentiated normally but did not accumulate in the respective lymphoid tissue anlagens in Cbfβ2-/- mice. These findings demonstrate that Cbfβ2 is a central regulator of the MALT developmental program, but the dependency of Runx proteins on the lymphoid tissue development would differ among PPs, NALT, and TALT.
Recent research has demonstrated that the nicotinergic signaling network of mammary epithelium can both mediate the physiological control of normal breast epithelial cells (BECs) and exhibit tumor-promoting effects on malignant BECs. Therefore, mammary nicotinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptors (nAChRs) may become a specific target for novel anti-breast cancer therapies. Toward this goal, we investigated the difference in the ACh receptor repertoires between normal and malignant BECs, determined effects of nicotinic ligands on 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK)-dependent activation of ERK1/2 and tumorigenic transformation of MCF10A cells, and characterized reciprocal effects of NNK and SLURP (secreted mammalian Ly-6/urokinase plasminogen activator receptor related protein-1)-1 on the expression of nAChR subunits and several oncogenes and tumor-suppressing genes in BECs. Both the non-malignant MCF10A and malignant MCF7 breast cells expressed α3, α5, α7, α9, α10, β1, β2, γ, δ and ε nAChR subunits and M(1), M(3), M(4) and M(5) muscarinic receptor subtypes. The malignancy was associated with expression of α1, α4 and β4 nAChR subunits and M(2) subtype. Malignant transformation of BECs was also associated with overexpression of α7-, and α9-made nAChRs. NNK upregulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation, stimulated expression of the gene encoding the tumor-promoter HGF, downregulated expression of the tumor suppressor gene CDKN2A, and induced tumorigenic transformation of MCF10A cells. Compared to the canonical nAChR antagonists, SLURP-1 showed the highest ability to abolish the nAChR-mediated effects of NNK in both cell-signaling and cell-transformation assays and reversed many effects of NNK on gene expression. SLURP-1 also markedly upregulated the tumor suppressor genes CDKN2B, RUNX3 and TP73. Altogether, the obtained results provided new insight into the molecular mechanisms of nAChR-mediated oncogenic effects of NNK on BECs and demonstrated the ability to abolish or reverse these effects by SLURP-1.
Author information:(1)Department of Pathology, Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou 221002, China.(2)Department of Pathology, Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou 221002, China; E-mail: 13952269920lhh@163.com.
It has been suggested that nuclear expression of maspin (mammary serine protease inhibitor; also known as SERPINB5) in colorectal cancer (CRC) is associated with proximal colonic tumor location, mucinous and poorly differentiated histology, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H), and poor prognosis. Based on these findings, there may be a potential association between nuclear maspin expression and the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) in CRC, but no study has elucidated this issue. Here, we evaluated maspin protein expression status by immunohistochemistry in 216 MSI-H CRCs. CIMP status was also determined by methylation-specific quantitative PCR method (MethyLight) using eight CIMP markers (MLH1, NEUROG1, CRABP1, CACNA1G, CDKN2A (p16), IGF2, SOCS1, and RUNX3) in 216 MSI-H CRCs. Associations between maspin expression status and various pathological, molecular, and survival data were statistically analyzed. Among the 216 MSI-H CRCs, 111 (51%) cases presented nuclear maspin-positive tumors. Nuclear maspin-positive MSI-H CRCs were significantly associated with proximal tumor location (P = 0.003), tumor budding (P < 0.001), lymphovascular invasion (P = 0.001), perineural invasion (P = 0.008), absence of peritumoral lymphoid reaction (P = 0.045), lymph node metastasis (P = 0.003), distant metastasis (P = 0.005), advanced AJCC/UICC stage (stage III/IV) (P = 0.001), and CIMP-high (CIMP-H) status (P < 0.001). Patients with nuclear maspin-positive tumors showed worse disease-free survival than patients with nuclear maspin-negative tumors (log-rank P = 0.025). In conclusion, nuclear maspin expression is molecularly associated with CIMP-H rather than MSI-H, and clinicopathologically correlates with tumor aggressiveness in CRC.
OBJECTIVE: H. pylori is the most important risk factor for gastric carcinoma. CagA-positive H. pylori is associated with an increased risk for gastric cancer compared with negative strains. RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor gene, which is related to the genesis of gastric cancer. β-catenin is integrated with E-cadherin in the cell membrane, and aberrant expression of the complex was reported in gastric carcinoma. Aim of this paper is to determine of the relation between RUNX3, E-cadherin and β-catenin in chronic gastritis associated with cagA-positive H. pylori infection.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Retrospective study was done on formalin fixed paraffin embedded gastric biopsies blocks of 90 patients diagnosed as H. pylori associated chronic gastritis. H. pylori was detected using modified Giemsa stain. Nested PCR was used for detection of cagA, reverse transcription-PCR for detection of RUNX3 and immunohistochemistry for detection of E-cadherin and β-catenin.RESULTS: Fifty percent of cases were found to be cagA positive. CagA was significantly associated with the intensity of mononuclear inflammation, the intensity of neutrophilic inflammation, the degree of mucosal atrophy and loss of RUNX3 but not with the density of H. pylori, intestinal metaplasia, E-cadherin or β-catenin. There was significant relation between loss of RUNX3 and increasing density of H. pylori, intensity of neutrophilic inflammation, mucosal atrophy and intestinal metaplasia. RUNX3 was found to be significantly correlated with E-cadherin but not with β-catenin. E-cadherin showed decreased expression in 36.7% of biopsies while, β-catenin was decreased in 33% of biopsies.CONCLUSIONS: Loss of RUNX3, E-cadherin and β-catenin was considered early events in the cascade of gastric carcinoma development. Loss of RUNX3 but neither E-cadherin nor β-catenin was related to cagA positive H. pylori strains.
Lung adenocarcinomas, like other cancers, develop through the accumulation of epigenetic and genetic alterations. Numerous studies have shown that K-RAS mutation is among the most important early events in carcinogenesis of the lung. However, it is also well established that growth-stimulating signals feed back into growth-suppressing pathways, and any imbalance in these signaling networks will cause the cell to exit the cell cycle, thereby preventing uncontrolled cell growth. How, then, do K-RAS-activated cells evade cellular defense mechanisms? To answer this question, it is necessary to identify the molecular event(s) responsible for the development of early dysplastic lesions that are unable to defend against aberrant oncogene activation. Lineage-determining transcriptional regulators govern differentiation status during normal lung development, as well as in lung adenocarcinoma. Among the genes involved in K-RAS-induced lung tumorigenesis, RUNX3 is unique: inactivation of Runx3 in mouse lung induces lung adenoma and abrogates the ARF-p53 pathway. This observation raises the possibility of intimate cross-talk between the differentiation program and oncogene surveillance. In this review, we summarized evidences suggesting that K-RAS-activated cells do not evade cellular defense mechanisms per se; instead, cells with K-RAS mutations are selected only if they occur in cells in which defense mechanism is abrogated.
BACKGROUND: Baicalein, a natural flavonoid obtained from the Scutellaria baicalensis root, has been reported to inhibit growth of human lung cancer. However, the detailed mechanism underlying this has not been well elucidated.METHODS: Cell viability was measured using a 3-(4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assays. Apoptosis was detected by flow cytometry analysis and caspase 3/7 assays. The expression of RUNX3 and FOXO3a mRNA were measured by real time RT-PCR methods. Western blot analysis was performed to measure the phosphorylation and protein expression of AMP-activated protein kinase alpha (AMPKα) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and forkhead box O3a (FOXO3a). Silencing of FOXO3a and RUNX3 were performed by small interfering RNA (siRNA) methods. Exogenous expression of FOXO3a or RUNX3 was carried out by electroporated transfection assays.RESULTS: We showed that baicalein significantly inhibited growth and induced apoptosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Baicalein induced RUNX3 and FOXO3a protein expression, and increased phosphorylation of AMPKα and ERK1/2. Moreover, the inhibitors of AMPK and MEK/ERK1/2 reversed the effect of baicalein on RUNX3 and FOXO3a protein expression. Interestingly, while compound C had little effect on blockade of baicalein-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2, PD98059 significantly abrogated baicalein-induced phosphorylation of AMPKα. Intriguingly, while silencing of RUNX3 abolished the effect of baicalein on expression of FOXO3a and apoptosis, silencing of FOXO3a significantly attenuated baicalein-reduced cell proliferation. On the contrary, overexpression of FOXO3a restored the effect of baicalein on cell growth inhibition in cells silencing of endogenous FOXO3a gene and enhanced the effect of baicalein on RUNX3 protein expression. Finally, exogenous expression of RUNX3 increased FOXO3a protein and strengthened baicalein-induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2.CONCLUSION: Collectively, our results show that baicalein inhibits growth and induces apoptosis of NSCLC cells through AMPKα- and MEK/ERK1/2-mediated increase and interaction of FOXO3a and RUNX3 protein. The crosstalk between AMPKα and MEK/ERK1/2 signaling pathways, and the reciprocal interplay of FOXO3a and RUNX3 converge on the overall response of baicalein. This study reveals a novel mechanism for regulating FOXO3a and RUNX3 signaling axis in response to baicalein and suggests a new strategy for NSCLC associated targeted therapy.
Colorectal cancer is one of the frequently seen malignancies in the world. To date, several oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes have been identified and linked to colorectal cancer pathogenesis. Although recent advances in the diagnosis and therapy of colorectal cancer are promising, identifying novel genetic contributors is still high priority. In the present study, expression profile of some cancer-related genes and their regulatory miRNA molecules were evaluated by using a high-throughput real-time PCR method. For the study, a total of 54 patients diagnosed with CRC and normal colon tissue samples of 42 healthy controls were included. For the expression analysis, total RNA was extracted from FFPE tissue samples and converted to cDNA. All expression analyses were assessed by using Fluidigm Microfluidic Dynamic Array chips for 96 samples and the reactions were held in Fluidigm BioMark™ HD System Real-Time PCR. As a result of the study, expression of the ADAMTS1, FHIT, RUNX1, RUNX3 and WWOX genes was shown to be significantly altered in CRC tissues in contrast to normal tissue samples. Moreover, miR-378a-3p, miR-155-5p, miR-193b-3p, miR-96-5p, miR-17-5p, miR-27a-3p, miR-133b, miR-203a, miR-205-5p, miR-34c-5p, miR-130a-3p, miR-301a-3p, miR-132-3p, miR-222-3p, miR-34a-5p, miR-21-5p, miR-29a-3p and miR-29b-3p were found to be significantly deregulated in CRC. Consequently, results of the current study strongly suggest the involvement of novel cancer-related genes and their regulatory miRNAs in CRC physiopathology.
BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer exhibits familial clustering, and gastric cancer familial relatives (GCF) tend to present with corpus-predominant gastritis and precancerous lesions as SPEM or IM after H. pylori infection. The study determined whether the children of gastric cancer patients (GCA) had genomic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) predisposed to the gastric precancerous lesions as spasmolytic polypeptide-expressing metaplasia (SPEM) or intestinal metaplasia (IM).RESULTS: There were 389 family relatives of 193 non-cardiac GCA and 173 duodenal ulcer patients (DU), received blood sampling for DNA collection. The differences of the risk alleles of SNPs in the ITGA5, ITGB1, IL-10, COX-2, RUNX3, and TFF2 genes were compared between 195 children of GCA and 143 DU. The children of GCA had higher allele frequencies of ITGA5-1160 T-carrier (P = 0.006, OR[95% CI] = 2.2[1.2-4]), ITGB1-1949 A-carrier (P = 0.047; OR[95% CI] = 2.8[1.4-5.3]), ITGB1 + 31804 C-carrier (P = 0.013; OR[95% CI] = 4.7[1.7-13.0]), IL-10-592 AA (P = 0.014; OR[95% CI] = 2.3[1.4-4.0]) and COX-2-1195 G-carrier (P = 0.019; OR[95% CI] = 1.7[0.9-3.2]) than DU. The combined genotype with ITGA5-1160/ITGB1-1949/ITGB1 + 31804 as T/A/C carriers and COX-2-1195/IL-10-592 as G-carrier/AA was more prevalent in the children of GCA than in DU (P < 1×10(-4)), and predisposed with a 5.3-fold risk of getting SPEM in the H. pylori-infected children of GCA (P = 0.016). Such risk of getting SPEM increased to 112 folds, if combined with RUNX3 + 492/TFF2-308 as A-carrier/CC in this limited study scale (P = 1×10(-4)).CONCLUSIONS: The SNPs of ITGA5-1160/ITGB1-1949/ ITGB1 + 31804 as T/A/C carriers and COX-2-1195/IL-10-592 as G-carrier/AA, or more specific to combine RUNX3 + 492/TFF2-308 as A-carrier/CC shall be host factor predisposing to gastric cancer during H. pylori infection, and serve as marker to identify high-risk subjects for H. pylori eradication.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate various molecular subtypes defined by genomic instability that may be related to early death and recurrence in colon cancer.METHODS: We sought to investigate various molecular subtypes defined by instability at microsatellites (MSI), changes in methylation patterns (CpG island methylator phenotype, CIMP) or copy number variation (CNV) in 8 genes. Stage II-III colon cancers (n = 64) were investigated by methylation-specific multiplex ligated probe amplification (MS-MLPA). Correlation of CNV, CIMP and MSI, with mutations in KRAS and BRAFV600E were assessed for overlap in molecular subtypes and early recurrence risk by uni- and multivariate regression.RESULTS: The CIMP phenotype occurred in 34% (22/64) and MSI in 27% (16/60) of the tumors, with noted CIMP/MSI overlap. Among the molecular subtypes, a high CNV phenotype had an associated odds ratio (OR) for recurrence of 3.2 (95% CI 1.1-9.3; P = 0.026). Losses of CACNA1G (OR of 2.9, 95% CI 1.4-6.0; P = 0.001), IGF2 (OR of 4.3, 95% CI 1.1-15.8; P = 0.007), CDKN2A (p16) (OR of 2.0, 95% CI 1.1-3.6; P = 0.024), and RUNX3 (OR of 3.4, 95% CI 1.3-8.7; P = 0.002) were associated with early recurrence, while MSI, CIMP, KRAS or BRAF V600E mutations were not. The CNV was significantly higher in deceased patients (CNV in 6 of 8) compared to survivors (CNV in 3 of 8). Only stage and loss of RUNX3 and CDKN2A were significant in the multivariable risk-model for early recurrence.CONCLUSIONS: A high copy number variation phenotype is a strong predictor of early recurrence and death, and may indicate a dose-dependent relationship between genetic instability and outcome. Loss of tumor suppressors RUNX3 and CDKN2A were related to recurrence-risk and warrants further investigation.
CD4(+) helper T cells and CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells form the two major subsets of peripheral T lymphocytes. Helper T cells fulfill crucial roles in the activation and coordination of the immune response, while cytotoxic T cells kill virus-infected or tumor cells. Recent data suggest that the lineage identify of helper T cells is not fixed and that CD4(+) T cells under certain physiological conditions can be reprogrammed to express CD8 lineage genes and to develop into intestinal intraepithelial CD4(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes that lack the expression of the key helper T cell lineage commitment factor ThPOK. Moreover, the analysis of mice with a conditional deletion of the transcription factor ThPOK or the histone deacetylases HDAC1 and HDAC2 indicated that CD8 lineage genes are actively repressed in CD4(+) T cells in order to maintain the lineage integrity of helper T cells. In this review I summarize recent studies that indicate plasticity of CD4(+) T cells towards a CTL program and that demonstrate that ThPOK and HDAC1-HDAC2 are part of a transcriptional regulatory circuit that counteracts the activity of the transcription factor Runx3 to maintain CD4(+) T cell lineage integrity.
One of the most frequent genetic aberrations in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is chromosomal translocation between AML1/RUNX1 on chromosome 21 and ETO gene on chromosome 8 resulting in the expression of chimeric oncogene AML1-ETO. Although patients with t(8;21) translocation have good prognosis, 5-year survival is observed only in 50% of the cases. AML1-ETO translocation is usually accompanied by overexpression of mutant C-Kit, a tyrosine kinase, which contributes to uncontrolled proliferation of premature blood cells leading to relapse and poor prognosis. We illustrate the potential use of esculetin on leukemic cell line, Kasumi-1, bearing t(8;21) translocation and mutated C-Kit gene. Esculetin decreases the expression of AML1-ETO at both protein and transcript level within 24 hours of treatment. Half-life of AML1-ETO mRNA was reduced from 7 hours to 1.5 hours. Similarly half-life of C-Kit mRNA was reduced to 2 hours from 5 hours in esculetin treated cells. Esculetin also perturbed the expression of ectopically expressed AML1-ETO in U937 cells. The decreased expression of AML1-ETO chimeric gene was associated with increased expression of LAT1 and RUNX3 genes, targets of AML1. We envisage that discovery of a drug candidate which could target both these mutated genes would be a considerable breakthrough for future application.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the application of multiplex nested methylated specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the early diagnosis of epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Serum and fresh tissue samples were collected from 114 EOC patients. RUNX3, TFPI2 and OPCML served as target genes. Methylation levels of tissues were assessed by multiplex nested methylated specific PCR, the results being compared with those for carcinoma antigen 125 (CA125).RESULTS: The serum free deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA) methylation spectrum of EOC patients was completely contained in the DNA spectrum of cancer tissues, providing an accurate reflection of tumor DNA methylation conditions. Serum levels of CA125 and free DNA methylation in the EOC group were evidently higher than those in benign lesion and control groups (p<0.05). Patients with early EOC had markedly lower serum CA125 than those with advanced EOC (p<0.05), but there was no significant difference in free DNA methylation (p>0.05). The sensitivity, specificity and positive predicative value (PPV) of multiplex nested methylated specific PCR were significantly higher for detection of all patients and those with early EOC than those for CA125 (p<0.05). In the detection of patients with advanced EOC, the PPV of CA125 detection was obviously lower than that of multiplex nested methylated specific PCR (p>0.05), but there was no significant difference in sensitivity (p>0.05).CONCLUSIONS: Serum free DNA methylation can be used as a biological marker for EOC and multiplex nested methylated specific PCR should be considered for early diagnosis since it can accurately determine tumor methylation conditions.
Recently, we identified a novel strategy for anticancer chemotherapy by restoring runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) levels via lactam-based histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors that stabilize RUNX3. Described here are the synthesis, biological evaluation, and pharmacokinetic evaluation of new synthetic small molecules based on pyridone-based HDAC inhibitors that specifically stabilize RUNX3 by acetylation and regulate its function. Many of the newly synthesized compounds showed favorable RUNX activities, HDAC inhibitory activities, and inhibitory activities on the growth of human cancer cell lines. Notably, one of these new derivatives, (E)-N-hydroxy-3-(2-oxo-1-(quinolin-2-ylmethyl)-1,2-dihydropyridin-3-yl)acrylamide (4l), significantly restored RUNX3 in a dose-dependent manner and showed high metabolic stability, a good pharmacokinetic profile with high oral bioavailability and long half-life, and strong antitumor activity. This study suggests that pyridone-based analogues modulate RUNX3 activity through epigenetic regulation as well as strong transcriptional and post-translational regulation of RUNX3 and could be potential clinical candidates as orally available RUNX3 modulators for the treatment of cancer.
The recent studies demonstrated that the global 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5 hmC) level decreased in prostate cancer (PCa) involved the 5-methylcytosine (5 mC) hydroxymethylase, Ten-eleven translocation (TET)1 reduction. 5 hmC and TET1 were both revealed a dual function in bivalent domain associated with developmental regulators in embryonic stem cell model. However, the mechanism underlying the DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation change mediated by TET1 downregulation in PCa remains unclear. Herein, using BSP to assess the 5 mC level in promoters of ten specific marker gene in PCa, our results present that Cdh1, Gstp1, Pten, Apc, Runx3 and Mgmt are observed to be hypermethylated in promoters and lower expression while Cyr61, Sema3c and Ptgs2 are reversed patterns compared to the normal prostate tissues. Furthermore, using ChIP methods to investigate the H3K4me3 and H3K27me3 patterns in promoters, these four markers are all demonstrated to be associated with Polycomb-repressed characterization and upregulated in response to TET1/PRC2 reduction in PCa. Thus, our findings reveal a distinct activating and repressive function of TET1-mediated transcriptional regulation in prostate cancer.
BACKGROUND: Epigenetic marks are heritable, influenced by the environment, direct the maturation of T lymphocytes, and in mice enhance the development of allergic airway disease. Thus it is important to define epigenetic alterations in asthmatic populations.OBJECTIVE: We hypothesize that epigenetic alterations in circulating PBMCs are associated with allergic asthma.METHODS: We compared DNA methylation patterns and gene expression in inner-city children with persistent atopic asthma versus healthy control subjects by using DNA and RNA from PBMCs. Results were validated in an independent population of asthmatic patients.RESULTS: Comparing asthmatic patients (n = 97) with control subjects (n = 97), we identified 81 regions that were differentially methylated. Several immune genes were hypomethylated in asthma, including IL13, RUNX3, and specific genes relevant to T lymphocytes (TIGIT). Among asthmatic patients, 11 differentially methylated regions were associated with higher serum IgE concentrations, and 16 were associated with percent predicted FEV1. Hypomethylated and hypermethylated regions were associated with increased and decreased gene expression, respectively (P < 6 × 10(-12) for asthma and P < .01 for IgE). We further explored the relationship between DNA methylation and gene expression using an integrative analysis and identified additional candidates relevant to asthma (IL4 and ST2). Methylation marks involved in T-cell maturation (RUNX3), TH2 immunity (IL4), and oxidative stress (catalase) were validated in an independent asthmatic cohort of children living in the inner city.CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that DNA methylation marks in specific gene loci are associated with asthma and suggest that epigenetic changes might play a role in establishing the immune phenotype associated with asthma.
Erratum in    PLoS Pathog. 2015 Jun;11(6):e1004968.
The NR4A nuclear receptor family member Nr4a1 is strongly induced in thymocytes undergoing selection, and has been shown to control the development of Treg cells; however the role of Nr4a1 in CD8(+) T cells remains undefined. Here we report a novel role for Nr4a1 in regulating the development and frequency of CD8(+) T cells through direct transcriptional control of Runx3. We discovered that Nr4a1 recruits the corepressor, CoREST to suppress Runx3 expression in CD8(+) T cells. Loss of Nr4a1 results in increased Runx3 expression in thymocytes which consequently causes a 2-fold increase in the frequency and total number of intrathymic and peripheral CD8(+) T cells. Our findings establish Nr4a1 as a novel and critical player in the regulation of CD8 T cell development through the direct suppression of Runx3.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association between runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene promoter hypermethylation and gastric cancer risk by meta-analysis.MATERIALS AND METHODS: By searching Medline, EMBASE, Ovid, China National Knowledge Infrastructure and Wanfang databases, the open published articles reporting the relationship between RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation, and gastric carcinoma risk, were screened. The aggregated odds ratio of RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation in cancerous sample of gastric cancer patients compared to normal gastric tissue of gastric cancer patients was pooled by statistic software STATA-11.0.RESULTS: Sixteen studies include 2631 samples were finally included in this meta-analysis. The aggregated results indicated that the hypermethylation rate in cancerous tissue was much higher than that in normal tissue (55.1% vs. 26.5%, P < 0.05). And the pooled results showed that the RUNX3 gene promoter methylation odds in tumor tissue in gastric cancer patients compared to normal gastric tissue was 5.47 (95% confidence interval: 3.34-8.96).CONCLUSION: RUNX3 gene promoter hypermethylation rate was much higher in tumor tissue than that in normal gastric tissue in the patient with gastric cancer.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has been reported to be a tumor-suppressing gene in hepatocellular carcinoma. Association between hepatocellular carcinoma and RUNX3 promoter methylation has been investigated in studies with specific ethnic backgrounds and small sample sizes. In this study, a meta-analysis was adopted to combine the data from 11 studies of association between RUNX3 promoter methylation and hepatocellular carcinoma. Pooled odds ratio for RUNX3 promoter methylation status in hepatocellular carcinoma versus control liver tissue was 24.37 (95%CI: 12.14, 48.92), p < .00001, indicates a strong association between methylation of the RUNX3 promoter and hepatocellular carcinoma.
PURPOSE: Although meningiomas are common central nervous system tumors, the biomarkers allowing early diagnosis and progression are still needed. The aim of this study was to evaluate the methylation status of 12 cancer-related genes, namely ERCC1, hMLH1, ATM, CDKN2B (p15INK4B), p14ARF, CDKN2A (p16INK4A), RASSF1A, RUNX3, GATA6, NDRG2, PTEN, and RARβ, in 44 meningioma samples of WHO grade I and II.METHODS: All genes were analyzed using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction, while pyrosequencing (PSQ) was used to study NDRG2 promoter methylation.RESULTS: The most frequently methylated genes in both types of meningiomas were p14ARF, RASSF1A, and p15INK4B. RUNX3, GATA6, and p16INK4A were methylated to a lesser extent, whereas ATM and RARβ were found to be methylated in a marginal number of patients. The ERCC1, hMLH1, NDRG2, and PTEN genes were unmethylated in all cases. Although tumors of the same grade according to WHO criteria had different genes methylated, the number of methylated genes for each individual patient was low. RUNX3 methylation significantly correlated with meningioma WHO grade, therefore, can be considered as a potential indicator of tumor aggressiveness. The sequence of NDRG2 chosen for PSQ analysis was found methylated in the majority of meningiomas; however, the methylation level was only slightly elevated as compared to non-cancerous brain.CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results of this study confirm that DNA methylation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of meningiomas. Further investigations, particularly concerning RUNX3 methylation, are necessary in order to assess the clinical usefulness of the methylation analysis of the studied genes.
Inactivation of tumor suppressor genes (TSG) in normal cells provides a viability/growth advantage that contributes cell-autonomously to cancer. More than a decade ago claims arose that the RUNX3 member of the RUNX transcription factor family is a major TSG inactivated in gastric cancer, a postulate extended later to other cancers. However, evidence that Runx3 is not expressed in normal gastric and other epithelia has challenged the RUNX3-TSG paradigm. Here we critically re-appraise this paradigm in light of recent high-throughput, quantitative genome-wide studies on thousands of human samples of various tumors and new investigations of the role of Runx3 in mouse cancer models. Collectively, these studies unequivocally demonstrate that RUNX3 is not a bona fide cell-autonomous TSG. Accordingly, RUNX3 is not recognized as a TSG and is not included among the 2000 cancer genes listed in the "Cancer Gene Census" or "Network for Cancer Genes" repositories. In contrast, RUNX3 does play important functions in immunity and inflammation and may thereby indirectly influence epithelial tumor development.
Gene-specific methylation alterations in breast cancer have been suggested to occur early in tumorigenesis and have the potential to be used for early detection and prevention. The continuous increase in worldwide breast cancer incidences emphasizes the urgent need for identification of methylation biomarkers for early cancer detection and patient stratification. Using microfluidic PCR-based target enrichment and next-generation bisulfite sequencing technology, we analyzed methylation status of 48 candidate genes in paired tumor and normal tissues from 180 Chinese breast cancer patients. Analysis of the sequencing results showed 37 genes differentially methylated between tumor and matched normal tissues. Breast cancer samples with different clinicopathologic characteristics demonstrated distinct profiles of gene methylation. The methylation levels were significantly different between breast cancer subtypes, with basal-like and luminal B tumors having the lowest and the highest methylation levels, respectively. Six genes (ACADL, ADAMTSL1, CAV1, NPY, PTGS2, and RUNX3) showed significant differential methylation among the 4 breast cancer subtypes and also between the ER +/ER- tumors. Using unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis, we identified a panel of 13 hypermethylated genes as candidate biomarkers that performed a high level of efficiency for cancer prediction. These 13 genes included CST6, DBC1, EGFR, GREM1, GSTP1, IGFBP3, PDGFRB, PPM1E, SFRP1, SFRP2, SOX17, TNFRSF10D, and WRN. Our results provide evidence that well-defined DNA methylation profiles enable breast cancer prediction and patient stratification. The novel gene panel might be a valuable biomarker for early detection of breast cancer.
OBJECTIVES: The occurrence of squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue (SCCT) of young patients increased. There are still controversies about patient prognosis. The underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear.METHODS: 276 patients (66 ≤45, 210 >45 years) with SCCT were included. Clinical parameters and survival data were assessed. Oncogenes and tumor suppressors were analyzed via immunohistochemistry (p53, CXCR4, p16, EGFR) and qPCR (CDK4, CDKN2A, TP53, MDM2, AKT1, PIK3CA, NRAS, HRAS, KRAS, HGF, MET, EGF, ATM, BRCA1, E2F1, FHIT, RUNX3, STK11, BCL2, CTNNB1).RESULTS: The median overall survival was 142 (≤45 years) and 34 months (>45 years) (p < 0.0001; HR [95%CI]: 0.37 [0.30-0.58]). Disease specific survival in patients ≤45 years was with 181 months significantly higher than in patients >45 years (p < 0.0001; HR [95%CI]: 0.33 [0.26-0.57]). Immunhistochemistry visualized a comparable expression of analyzed proteins. QPCR demonstrated in patients ≤45 years a higher expression of genes that are associated with carcinogenesis (CTNNB1, STK11, CDKN2A, HGF, MET) as well as tumor suppressors that constitute an enhanced radio-sensitivity (ATM, BRCA1E2F1, FHIT).CONCLUSION: Derogation of the WNT-CTNNB1-STK11 and CDKN2A-HGF-MET pathway can constitute the carcinogenesis, while the higher expression of radio-sensitizers ATM, BRCA1E2F1 and FHIT can explain the better OS/DSS in young patients.
BACKGROUND: The population in Japan is aging more rapidly than in any other country. However, no studies have determined the characteristics of the large population of elderly patients with colorectal tumors. Therefore, we examined the clinicopathological and molecular features of these tumors in elderly patients.METHODS: In total, 1,627 colorectal tumors (393 serrated lesions, 277 non-serrated adenomas and 957 colorectal cancers) were acquired from patients. Tumor specimens were analyzed for BRAF and KRAS mutations, CpG island methylator phenotype-specific promoters (CACNA1G, CDKN2A, IGF2 and RUNX3), IGFBP7, MGMT, MLH1 and RASSF2 methylation, microsatellite instability (MSI) and microRNA- 31 (miR-31).RESULTS: The frequency of elderly patients (aged ≥75 years) with sessile serrated adenomas (SSAs) with cytological dysplasia was higher than that of those with other serrated lesions and non-serrated adenomas (p < 0.0001). In elderly patients, all SSAs were located in the proximal colon (particularly the cecum to ascending colon). High miR-31 expression, MLH1 methylation and MSI-high status were more frequently detected in SSAs from elderly patients than in those from non-elderly patients. In contrast, no significant differences were found between older age of onset and high-grade dysplasia for traditional serrated adenomas or non-serrated adenomas in any of these molecular alterations.CONCLUSION: In elderly patients, all SSAs were located in the proximal colon. Furthermore, cytological dysplasia and molecular alterations were more frequently detected in elderly patients with SSAs than in non-elderly patients. Thus, careful colonoscopic examinations of the proximal colon are necessary for elderly patients because SSAs in those patients may exhibit malignant potential.
Correlative and functional studies support the involvement of the RUNX gene family in haematological malignancies. To elucidate the role of epigenetics in RUNX inactivation, we evaluated promoter DNA methylation of RUNX1, 2, and 3 in 23 leukaemia cell lines and samples from acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), acute lymphocytic leukaemia (ALL) and myelodysplatic syndromes (MDS) patients. RUNX1 and RUNX2 gene promoters were mostly unmethylated in cell lines and clinical samples. Hypermethylation of RUNX3 was frequent among cell lines (74%) and highly variable among patient samples, with clear association to cytogenetic status. High frequency of RUNX3 hypermethylation (85% of the 20 studied cases) was found in AML patients with inv(16)(p13.1q22) compared to other AML subtypes (31% of the other 49 cases). RUNX3 hypermethylation was also frequent in ALL (100% of the six cases) but low in MDS (21%). In support of a functional role, hypermethylation of RUNX3 was correlated with low levels of protein, and treatment of cell lines with the DNA demethylating agent, decitabine, resulted in mRNA re-expression. Furthermore, relapse-free survival of non-inv(16)(p13.1q22) AML patients without RUNX3 methylation was significantly better (P = 0·016) than that of methylated cases. These results suggest that RUNX3 silencing is an important event in inv(16)(p13.1q22) leukaemias.
Congenital osteopenia is a bone demineralization condition that is associated with elevated fracture risk in human infants. Here we show that Runx3, like Runx2, is expressed in precommitted embryonic osteoblasts and that Runx3-deficient mice develop severe congenital osteopenia. Runx3-deficient osteoblast-specific (Runx3(fl/fl)/Col1α1-cre), but not chondrocyte-specific (Runx3(fl/fl)/Col1α2-cre), mice are osteopenic. This demonstrates that an osteoblastic cell-autonomous function of Runx3 is required for proper osteogenesis. Bone histomorphometry revealed that decreased osteoblast numbers and reduced mineral deposition capacity in Runx3-deficient mice cause this bone formation deficiency. Neonatal bone and cultured primary osteoblast analyses revealed a Runx3-deficiency-associated decrease in the number of active osteoblasts resulting from diminished proliferation and not from enhanced osteoblast apoptosis. These findings are supported by Runx3-null culture transcriptome analyses showing significant decreases in the levels of osteoblastic markers and increases in the levels of Notch signaling components. Thus, while Runx2 is mandatory for the osteoblastic lineage commitment, Runx3 is nonredundantly required for the proliferation of these precommitted cells, to generate adequate numbers of active osteoblasts. Human RUNX3 resides on chromosome 1p36, a region that is associated with osteoporosis. Therefore, RUNX3 might also be involved in human bone mineralization.
Epigenetic changes play an important role in the pathogenesis of gliomas and have the potential to become clinically useful biomarkers. The aim of this study was the evaluation of the profile of promoter methylation of 13 genes selected based on their anticipated diagnostic and/or prognostic value. Methylation-specific PCR (MSP) was used to assess the methylation status of MGMT, ERCC1, hMLH1, ATM, CDKN2B (p15INK4B), p14ARF, CDKN2A (p16INK4A), RASSF1A, RUNX3, GATA6, NDRG2, PTEN, and RARβ in a subset of 95 gliomas of different grades. Additionally, the methylation status of MGMT and NDRG2 was analyzed using pyrosequencing (PSQ). The results revealed that the methylation index of individual glioma patients correlates with World Health Organization (WHO) tumor grade and patient's age. RASSF1A, RUNX3, GATA6, and MGMT were most frequently methylated, whereas the INK4B-ARF-INK4A locus, PTEN, RARβ, and ATM were methylated to a lesser extent. ERCC1, hMLH1, and NDRG2 were unmethylated. RUNX3 methylation correlated with WHO tumor grade and patient's age. PSQ confirmed significantly higher methylation levels of MGMT and NDRG2 as compared with normal, non-cancerous brain tissue. To conclude, DNA methylation of a whole panel of selected genes can serve as a tool for glioma aggressiveness prediction.
RUNX2 is a member of the RUNX family of transcription factors, also containing the RUNX1 and RUNX3 proteins. These factors control the expression of genes essential for proper development in many cell lineages. RUNX2 plays a crucial role in the proliferation and differentiation of osteoblasts, required for bone formation. The cellular level of RUNX2 oscillates in a cell phase-specific manner, reaching a maximum at G2/M in some cells and overexpression of RUNX2 in osteoblasts blocked G1 to S phase progression. Recent studies have shown that RUNX2 may interact with p53 and change the activity of a histone deacetylase. Moreover, RUNX2 may act as an oncogene in cancer transformation, inevitably associated with genomic instability evoked by increased occurrence of DNA damage. We showed that some RUNX2 modifiers changed the sensitivity of differentiating preosteoblasts to DNA damage induced by oxidative stress. All these data suggest the involvement of RUNX2 in cellular DNA damage response (DDR), which is particularly important in osteogenesis as the process of osteoblast differentiation is associated with increasing oxidative stress. However, the mechanism underlying DDR involvement of RUNX2 is unknown. The basic question, whether RUNX2 plays a positive or destructive role in DDR in differentiating cells is still open.
Erratum in    J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2022 Oct 14;41(1):304.
Comment in    J Leukoc Biol. 2015 Apr;97(4):623-5.
Many components of the CHIEF (Convergence of Hormones, Inflammation, and Energy Related Factors) pathway could influence survival given their involvement in cell growth, apoptosis, angiogenesis, and tumor invasion stimulation. We used ARTP (Adaptive Rank Truncation Product) to test if genes in the pathway were associated with colorectal cancer-specific mortality. Colon cancer (n = 1555) and rectal cancer (n = 754) cases were followed over five years. Age, center, stage at diagnosis, and tumor molecular phenotype were considered when calculating ARTP p values. A polygenic risk score was used to summarize the magnitude of risk associated with this pathway. The JAK/STAT/SOC was significant for colon cancer survival (PARTP = 0.035). Fifteen genes (DUSP2, INFGR1, IL6, IRF2, JAK2, MAP3K10, MMP1, NFkB1A, NOS2A, PIK3CA, SEPX1, SMAD3, TLR2, TYK2, and VDR) were associated with colon cancer mortality (PARTP < 0.05); JAK2 (PARTP  = 0.0086), PIK3CA (PARTP = 0.0098), and SMAD3 (PARTP = 0.0059) had the strongest associations. Over 40 SNPs were significantly associated with survival within the 15 significant genes (PARTP < 0.05). SMAD3 had the strongest association with survival (HRGG 2.46 95% CI 1.44,4.21 PTtrnd = 0.0002). Seven genes (IL2RA, IL8RA, IL8RB, IRF2, RAF1, RUNX3, and SEPX1) were significantly associated with rectal cancer (PARTP < 0.05). The HR for colorectal cancer-specific mortality among colon cancer cases in the upper at-risk alleles group was 11.81 (95% CI 7.07, 19. 74) and was 10.99 (95% CI 5.30, 22.78) for rectal cancer. These results suggest that several genes in the CHIEF pathway are important for colorectal cancer survival; the risk associated with the pathway merits validation in other studies.
BACKGROUND: Our understanding of the genetic factors underlying juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is growing, but remains incomplete. Recently, a number of novel genetic loci were reported to be associated with JIA at (or near) genome-wide significance in a large case-control discovery sample using the Immunochip genotyping array. However, independent replication of findings has yet to be performed. We therefore attempted to replicate these newly identified loci in the Australian CLARITY JIA case-control sample.FINDINGS: Genotyping was successfully performed on a total of 404 JIA cases (mean age 6.4 years, 68% female) and 676 healthy child controls (mean age 7.1 years, 42% female) across 19 SNPs previously associated with JIA. We replicated a significant association (p < 0.05, odds ratio (OR) in a direction consistent with the previous report) for seven loci, six replicated for the first time--C5orf56-IRF1 (rs4705862), ERAP2-LNPEP (rs27290), PRR5L (rs4755450), RUNX1 (rs9979383), RUNX3 (rs4648881), and UBE2L3 (rs2266959).CONCLUSIONS: We have carried out the first independent replication of association for six genes implicated in JIA susceptibility. Our data significantly strengthens the evidence that these loci harbor true disease associated variants. Thus, this study makes an important contribution to the growing body of international data that is revealing the genetic risk landscape of JIA.
Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) conversion of B-lymphocytes to Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines (LCLs) requires four EBV nuclear antigen (EBNA) oncoproteins: EBNA2, EBNALP, EBNA3A, and EBNA3C. EBNA2 and EBNALP associate with EBV and cell enhancers, up-regulate the EBNA promoter, MYC, and EBV Latent infection Membrane Proteins (LMPs), which up-regulate BCL2 to protect EBV-infected B-cells from MYC proliferation-induced cell death. LCL proliferation induces p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF)-mediated cell senescence. EBNA3A and EBNA3C jointly suppress p16(INK4A) and p14(ARF), enabling continuous cell proliferation. Analyses of the EBNA3A human genome-wide ChIP-seq landscape revealed 37% of 10,000 EBNA3A sites to be at strong enhancers; 28% to be at weak enhancers; 4.4% to be at active promoters; and 6.9% to be at weak and poised promoters. EBNA3A colocalized with BATF-IRF4, ETS-IRF4, RUNX3, and other B-cell Transcription Factors (TFs). EBNA3A sites clustered into seven unique groups, with differing B-cell TFs and epigenetic marks. EBNA3A coincidence with BATF-IRF4 or RUNX3 was associated with stronger EBNA3A ChIP-Seq signals. EBNA3A was at MYC, CDKN2A/B, CCND2, CXCL9/10, and BCL2, together with RUNX3, BATF, IRF4, and SPI1. ChIP-re-ChIP revealed complexes of EBNA3A on DNA with BATF. These data strongly support a model in which EBNA3A is tethered to DNA through a BATF-containing protein complexes to enable continuous cell proliferation.
BACKGROUND: The capacity of cancer cells to undergo epithelial mesenchymal trans-differentiation has been implicated as a factor driving metastasis, through the acquisition of enhanced migratory/invasive cell programs and the engagement of anti-apoptotic mechanisms promoting drug and radiation resistance. Our aim was to define molecular signaling changes associated with mesenchymal trans-differentiation in two KRas mutant NSCLC models. We focused on central transcription and epigenetic regulators predicted to be important for mesenchymal cell survival.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We have modeled trans-differentiation and cancer stemness in inducible isogenic mutant-KRas H358 and A549 non-small cell lung cell backgrounds. As expected, our models show mesenchymal-like tumor cells acquire novel mechanisms of cellular signaling not apparent in their epithelial counterparts. We employed large-scale quantitative phosphoproteomic, proteomic, protein-protein interaction, RNA-Seq, and network function prediction approaches to dissect the molecular events associated with the establishment and maintenance of the mesenchymal state.RESULTS: Gene-set enrichment and pathway prediction indicated BMI1, KDM5B, RUNX2, MYC/MAX, NFκB, LEF1, and HIF1 target networks were significantly enriched in the trans-differentiation of H358 and A549 NSCLC models. Physical overlaps between multiple networks implicate NR4A1 as an overlapping control between TCF and NFκB pathways. Enrichment correlations also indicated marked decrease in cell cycling, which occurred early in the EMT process. RNA abundance time course studies also indicated early expression of epigenetic and chromatin regulators within 8-24 h, including CITED4, RUNX3, CMBX1, and SIRT4.CONCLUSION: Multiple transcription and epigenetic pathways where altered between epithelial and mesenchymal tumor cell states, notably the polycomb repressive complex-1, HP1γ, and BAF/Swi-Snf. Network analysis suggests redundancy in the activation and inhibition of pathway regulators, notably factors controlling epithelial cell state. Through large-scale transcriptional and epigenetic cell reprograming, mesenchymal trans-differentiation can promote diversification of signaling networks potentially important in resistance to cancer therapies.
Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) are novel clinical anticancer drugs that inhibit HDAC gene expression and induce cell apoptosis in human cancers. Nevertheless, the detailed mechanism or the downstream HDAC targets by which HDACi mediates apoptosis in human breast cancer cells remains unclear. Here, we show that HDACi reduce tumorigenesis and induce intrinsic apoptosis of human breast cancer cells through the microRNA miR-125a-5p in vivo and in vitro. Intrinsic apoptosis was activated by the caspase 9/3 signaling pathway. In addition, HDACi mediated the expression of miR-125a-5p by activating RUNX3/p300/HDAC5 complex. Subsequently, miR-125a-5p silenced HDAC5 post-transcriptionally in the cells treated with HDACi. Thus, a regulatory loop may exist in human breast cancer cells involving miR-125a-5p and HDAC5 that is controlled by RUNX3 signaling. Silencing of miR-125a-5p and RUNX3 inhibited cancer progression and activated apoptosis, but silencing of HDAC5 had a converse effect. In conclusion, we demonstrate a possible new mechanism by which HDACi influence tumorigenesis and apoptosis via downregulation of miR-125a-5p expression. This study provides clinical implications in cancer chemotherapy using HDACi.
BACKGROUND: Previous reports indicate that RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor in several types of human tumors, including breast cancer (BC). However, the correlation between RUNX3 hypermethylation and the incidence of BC remains unclear. In this study, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis aiming to comprehensively assess the potential role of RUNX3 hypermethylation in the pathogenesis of BC.METHODS: A detailed literature search was made to identify studies for related research publications. Methodological quality of the studies was evaluated. Analysis of pooled data was performed. Odds ratio (OR) was calculated and summarized respectively.RESULTS: Final analysis of 565 BC patients from eleven eligible studies was performed. The results showed that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in BC than in normal breast tissue, the pooled OR from nine studies including 339 BC and 248 normal breast tissue (OR =24.12, 95% confidence interval [CI] =13.50-43.11, Z=10.75, P<0.00001). Further analysis also showed significantly increased OR of RUNX3 hypermethylation in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive than in ER-negative BC patients (OR =5.67, 95% CI =2.69-11.95, Z=4.57, P<0.00001). In addition, RUNX3 messenger RNA (mRNA) high expression was found to be correlated to better overall survival in 3,455 cases of BC patients that were followed up for 20 years (hazard ratio [HR] 0.79, P=8.8×10(-5)). Interestingly, RUNX3 mRNA overexpression was found to be correlated to better overall survival in only 668 cases of ER-negative patients (HR 0.72, P=0.01), but not in 1,767 cases of ER-positive patients (HR 0.87, P=0.13).CONCLUSION: The results of this meta-analysis suggest that RUNX3 hypermethylation may be implicated in the pathogenesis of BC. Detection of RUNX3 mRNA may be a helpful and valuable biomarker for diagnosis of BC, especially in ER-negative BC. We also discussed the significance of RUNX3 as a potential drug target.
Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) is the most common epithelial thyroid tumor, accounting for more than 80% of all thyroid cancers. Although PTC shows an indolent character and excellent prognosis, patients with aggressive characteristics are more likely to have a disease recurrence and die in the end. The aim of this study was to analyze BRAF(V600E) mutation and methylation levels of CpG sites in the promoters of CDH1, DAPK, RARβ and RUNX3 genes in a cohort of PTCs, and investigate their association with tumor recurrence. In this study, we used pyrosequencing method to individually quantified methylation levels at multiple CpG sites within each gene promoter, and detect BRAF(V600E) mutation in 120 PTCs and 23 goiter tissues as normal control. Moreover, appropriate cut-off values for each CpG site were set up to predict disease recurrence. Our data showed that overall average methylation levels of CDH1 and RUNX3 genes were significantly higher in PTCs than that in control subjects. Conversely, overall average methylation levels of DAPK promoter were significantly lower in PTCs than that in control subjects. Moreover, BRAF(V600E) mutation and overall average methylation levels of all these genes were not significant difference between recurrent and non-recurrent cases. However, we found that hypermethylation of RUNX3 at CpG sites -1397, -1406, -1415 and -1417 significantly increased the risk of of disease recurrence by using appropriate site-specific cut-off values. Collectively, our findings suggest RUNX3 site-specific hypermethylation may offer value in predicting or monitoring postoperative recurrence of PTC patients.
INTRODUCTION: Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is a cancer of variable outcomes with limited effective treatments resulting in poor overall survival (OS). Epigenetic alterations contributing to this deadly cancer type that can be used as novel therapeutic or diagnostic targets are still poorly understood.METHODS: We explored genome-wide DNA methylation data from The Cancer Genome Atlas project and identified a panel of tumor-related genes hypermethylated in ESCC. The methylation statuses of RASSF1, RARB, CDKN2A (p16INK4a, p14ARF), APC, and RUNX3 genes and long interspersed nucleotide element-1 (LINE-1) were validated in a large cohort (n = 140) of clinically well-annotated ESCC specimens and esophageal normal mucosa (n = 28) using a quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: Hypermethylation of RARB, p16INK4a, RASSF1, APC, RUNX3, and p14ARF were observed in 55%, 24%, 20%, 19%, 14%, and 8% of specimens, respectively. Hypermethylation of APC was significantly associated with tumor depth (p = 0.02) and American Joint Committee on Cancer stage (p = 0.03). Global DNA methylation level, assessed by LINE-1, was significantly lower in ESCC than in normal mucosa (p < 0.0001), and lower in greater than or equal to T2 (n = 69) than T1 tumors (n = 45; p = 0.03). There was a significant inverse correlation between LINE-1 and RARB methylation (p = 0.008). Importantly, hypermethylation of RASSF1 and APC genes was significantly associated with overall survival (OS; p = 0.006 and p = 0.007, respectively). In addition, patients with tumors containing a higher number of methylated genes (greater than two genes) presented worse OS (p = 0.003).CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that epigenetic alterations of a panel of tumor-related genes and the noncoding region LINE-1 can be used as prognostic indicators and help in clinical management of ESCC patients.
BACKGROUND: Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a genetically determined disease. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), tumor necrosis factor family member-associated NF-κB activator binding kinase 1 binding protein (TBKBP1), and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1 beta (PPARGC1B) have recently been found to be associated with susceptibility to AS in patients of Western European descent. We hypothesize that these three genes may be related to clinical outcomes of Chinese Han AS patients.METHODS: Blood samples were drawn from 396 HLA-B27-positive Chinese Han AS patients. Clinical indexes were scored for each patient, including the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI), Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI), and modified Stoke Ankylosing Spondylitis Spine Score (mSASSS), which measure patients' function of daily life and severity of AS. Twelve tagSNPs were selected from these three genes and genotyped. We analyzed the clinical indexes in different genotyped patients to investigate the relationship between severity of AS and different genotypes.RESULTS: The rs11249215 SNP in RUNX3 and the rs7379457 and rs32579 SNPs in PPARGC1B significantly affect the BASFI score in patients. The rs11249215, rs7551188, and rs1395621 SNPs in RUNX3 significantly affect the BASDAI scores. The two selected single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in TBKBP1 show no relationship with the clinical outcomes. None of the 12 SNPs is related to mSASSS. In conclusion, RUNX3 is related to both the severity of AS and the function of daily life. PPARGC1B is related to the function of daily life.
The deregulation of Wnt signaling has recently emerged as one of the drivers of head and neck cancers. This is frequently related to the methylation of several antagonists of this pathway. This study aimed at the assessment of the profile of methylation of Wnt pathway antagonists and the determination of the prognostic value of the methylation of selected genes in oral carcinomas. The methylation of DACH1, DKK1, LKB1, PPP2R2B, RUNX3, SFRP2, and WIF-1 was analyzed in 16 oral squamous cell carcinoma cell lines using the methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. The methylation of selected genes was further analyzed in tumor sections from 43 primary oral carcinoma patients. The analysis of oral carcinoma cell lines showed very frequent methylation of SFRP2 and WIF-1 and also a less frequent methylation of DACH1 and DKK1. On the other hand, RUNX3 was methylated only in one cell line, while LKB1 and PPP2R2B were not methylated in any of the cell lines. The biallelic methylation of DKK1 correlated with the low level of expression of this gene. Further evaluation of the methylation of DACH1, DKK1, and WIF1 in a clinical patient group confirmed the frequent methylation of WIF1 and intermediate or low frequency of methylation of DACH1 or DKK1, respectively. Importantly, the methylation of WIF-1 correlated with shorter survival in oral cancer patients. Overall, the methylation of the antagonists of Wnt pathway is frequently detected in oral squamous cell carcinomas. The methylation of WIF1 may be considered a prognostic marker in oral cancers.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most frequent and malignant astrocytic glioma in the adult, with a survival rate at 5 years less than 5%. In the GBM pathogenesis, the importance of genes methylation involved in cell cycle, tumor suppression, DNA repair and genome integrity, as well as tumor invasion and apoptosis has been described. We analyzed epigenetic regulation involvement of two genes related with apoptosis: TIMP3 and RUNX3 in order to define a clinical profile and compare with the most studied gene in GBM: MGMT. Eighty samples from GBM patients were evaluated by methylation specific PCR (MSP). Data from each patient were collected from medical histories to relate survival rates with gene methylation patterns. Methylation percentages obtained were: MGMT 45%, RUNX3 30% and TIMP3 28%. The study of MGMT methylation had prognostic value in patients with glioblastoma multiforme because at 8 months, 28% of patients survived with the gene methylated, while none of them lived with the gene unmethylated (P=0.016). RUNX3 behavior was opposite to TIMP3 and MGMT. TIMP3action, in terms of patient's survival, was similar to that observed with MGMT, percentage of patients surviving at 8 months with the gene methylated was 27%, compared with 7% of those with the unmethylated gene; there being a tendency to statistical significance (p=0.09).
DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), a key enzyme mediating DNA methylation, is known to be elevated in various cancers, including the mouse lung tumors induced by the tobacco-specific carcinogen 4-(Methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK). However, it is not known whether DNMT1 expression is induced right after NNK treatment and how DNMT1 expression varies throughout lung tumorigenesis. In the present study, we found that administration of NNK to A/J mice caused elevation of DNMT1 in bronchial epithelial cells at Days 1, 3, and 14 after NNK treatment. DNMT1 elevation at Day 1 was accompanied by an increase in phospho-histone H2AX (γ-H2AX) and phospho-AKT (p-AKT). At Weeks 5 to 20, NNK-induced DNMT1 in lung tissues was in lower levels than the early stages, but was highly elevated in lung tumors at Week 20. In addition, the early induction of p-AKT and γ-H2AX as well as cleaved caspase-3 in NNK-treated lung tissues was not detected at Weeks 5 to 20 but was elevated in lung tumors. In concordance with DNMT1 elevation, promoter hypermethylation of tumor suppressor genes Cdh13, Prdm2, and Runx3 was observed in lung tissues at Day 3 and in lung tumors. Treatment by EGCG attenuated DNMT1, p-AKT, and γ-H2AX inductions at Days 1 and 3 and inhibited lung tumorigenesis.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of RUNX3 in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cells biological behavior and the relationship between the expression of RUNX3 and MMP-9, TIMP-1, ICAM-1. RUNX3 levels in 90 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma specimens using immunohistochemical staining to examine the correlation between RUNX3 expression and clinical stage of ESCC. Furthermore, the role of RUNX3 in ESCC progression was evaluated in vitro by siRNA-mediated knockdown of RUNX3 or lentivirus-mediated over-expression of RUNX3 in ESCC cell lines. The expression and activities of MMP-9, TIMP-1, and ICAM-1 were analyzed. We found decreased expression of RUNX3 in ESCC tissue to be significantly related to T stage of tumor (p < 0.01). In vitro, knockdown of RUNX3 in Eca9706 cells resulted in promoting cell growth, migration, and invasion. Additionally, MMP-9 and ICAM-1 were upregulated in RUNX3-knockdown cells. Notably, RUNX3 over-expression in Kyse150 cells could significantly decrease MMP-9 and ICAM-1. Tumorigenesis in vivo was significantly determined. The study indicates that low expression of RUNX3 in human ESCC tissue is significantly correlated with progression. Restoration of RUNX3 expression significantly inhibits ESCC cells migration, invasion, and tumorigenesis, which may be caused by RUNX3's interaction with MMP-9 and ICAM-1; RUNX3 may be a potential therapeutic target for ESCC.
In the last decade there has been a rapid expansion in clinical trials using mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) from a variety of tissues. However, despite similarities in morphology, immunophenotype, and differentiation behavior in vitro, MSCs sourced from distinct tissues do not necessarily have equivalent biological properties. We performed a genome-wide methylation, transcription, and in vivo evaluation of MSCs from human bone marrow (BM), white adipose tissue, umbilical cord, and skin cultured in humanized media. Surprisingly, only BM-derived MSCs spontaneously formed a BM cavity through a vascularized cartilage intermediate in vivo that was progressively replaced by hematopoietic tissue and bone. Only BM-derived MSCs exhibited a chondrogenic transcriptional program with hypomethylation and increased expression of RUNX3, RUNX2, BGLAP, MMP13, and ITGA10 consistent with a latent and primed skeletal developmental potential. The humanized MSC-derived microenvironment permitted homing and maintenance of long-term murine SLAM(+) hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), as well as human CD34(+)/CD38(-)/CD90(+)/CD45RA(+) HSCs after cord blood transplantation. These studies underscore the profound differences in developmental potential between MSC sources independent of donor age, with implications for their clinical use. We also demonstrate a tractable human niche model for studying homing and engraftment of human hematopoietic cells in normal and neoplastic states.
The cyclostomes (jawless vertebrates), comprising lampreys and hagfishes, are the sister group of jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) and are hence an important group for the study of vertebrate evolution. In mammals, three Runx genes, Runx1, Runx2 and Runx3, encode transcription factors that are essential for cell proliferation and differentiation in major developmental pathways such as haematopoiesis, skeletogenesis and neurogenesis and are frequently associated with diseases. We describe here the characterization of Runx gene family members from a cyclostome, the Japanese lamprey (Lethenteron japonicum). The Japanese lamprey contains three Runx genes, RunxA, RunxB, and RunxC. However, phylogenetic and synteny analyses suggest that they are not one-to-one orthologs of gnathostome Runx1, Runx2 and Runx3. The major protein domains and motifs found in gnathostome Runx proteins are highly conserved in the lamprey Runx proteins. Although all gnathostome Runx genes each contain two alternative promoters, P1 (distal) and P2 (proximal), only lamprey RunxB possesses the alternative promoters; lamprey RunxA and RunxC contain only P2 and P1 promoter, respectively. Furthermore, the three lamprey Runx genes give rise to fewer alternative isoforms than the three gnathostome Runx genes. The promoters of the lamprey Runx genes lack the tandem Runx-binding motifs that are highly conserved among the P1 promoters of gnathostome Runx1, Runx2 and Runx3 genes; instead these promoters contain dispersed single Runx-binding motifs. The 3'UTR of lamprey RunxB contains binding sites for miR-27 and miR-130b/301ab, which are conserved in mammalian Runx1 and Runx3, respectively. Overall, the Runx genes in lamprey seem to have experienced a different evolutionary trajectory from that of gnathostome Runx genes which are highly conserved all the way from cartilaginous fishes to mammals.
The inactivation of RUNX3 in various cancers has been reported while the expression of RUNX3 on protein level in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and its relationship with pathological parameters and prognosis still remained unclear. In this study, we examined the expression of RUNX3 in 158 ESCC samples and 20 normal esophageal mucosa samples by immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR. The IHC result showed that RUNX3 was detected mainly in the nuclei of basal layer cells in 18 of 20 normal mucosa samples while in 158 ESCC samples, there were 46 with RUNX3 nuclei expression, 37 RUNX3 cytoplasmic expression, and 75 negative expression. The qRT-PCR confirmed the downregulation of RUNX3 mRNA in the RUNX3 protein negative group than in the RUNX3 nuclei and cytoplasmic expression group (P < 0.001), and the methylation-specific PCR showed a low methylation rate in the ESCC tissue samples with RUNX3 protein negative expression (6/40, 15%). The RUNX3 nuclei expression negatively correlated with the lymph node metastasis (P = 0.033) and recurrence status (P = 0.019), and the survival analysis showed that the patients with RUNX3 nuclei expression had a higher 5-year survival rate than the patients with RUNX3 cytoplasmic/negative expression (P = 0.022). The Cox regression analysis showed that the T classification (P = 0.001), lymph node metastasis (P < 0.001), and RUNX3 inactivation (negative/cytoplasmic expression, P = 0.039) were independent risk factor of poor prognosis. In conclusion, we found a frequent inactivation of RUNX3 due to low expression and cytoplasmic dislocalization in ESCC. The inactivation of RUNX3 may be involved in the progression of ESCC, and RUNX3 could be an indicator of prognosis for patients with ESCC after surgery.
CD4(+)/CD8(+) DP thymocytes are a well-described T cell developmental stage within the thymus. However, once differentiated, the CD4(+) lineage or the CD8(+) lineage is generally considered to be fixed. Nevertheless, mature CD4(+)/CD8(+) DP T cells have been described in the blood and peripheral lymphoid tissues of numerous species, as well as in numerous disease settings, including cancer. The expression of CD4 and CD8 is regulated by a very strict transcriptional program involving the transcription factors Runx3 and ThPOK. Initially thought to be mutually exclusive within CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells, CD4(+)/CD8(+) T cell populations, outside of the thymus, have recently been described to express concurrently ThPOK and Runx3. Considerable heterogeneity exists within the CD4(+)/CD8(+) DP T cell pool, and the function of CD4(+)/CD8(+) T cell populations remains controversial, with conflicting reports describing cytotoxic or suppressive roles for these cells. In this review, we describe how transcriptional regulation, lineage of origin, heterogeneity of CD4 and CD8 expression, age, species, and specific disease settings influence the functionality of this rarely studied T cell population.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of epigenetic inactivation of the runt-related transcription factor 3 gene (RUNX3) in the malignant transformation of ovarian endometriosis. Samples obtained by microdissection and scraping included 30 malignant ovarian endometriotic cyst tissues and 30 corresponding eutopic endometrium tissues from the endometriosis-associated ovarian carcinoma (EAOC) group, 19 benign ovarian endometriotic cyst tissues and 22 corresponding eutopic endometrium tissues from the endometriosis (EM) group and 22 normal eutopic endometrium tissues from the control endometrium (CE) group. RUNX3 methylation status was determined by methylation-specific PCR and bisulfite sequencing, while levels of RUNX3 and ERα protein expression were evaluated using immunohistochemistry. The percentage of RUNX3 methylation and negative RUNX3 protein expression in the malignant ovarian endometriotic cysts from the EAOC group was significantly higher than that in the benign ovarian endometriotic cysts from the EM group. The percentage of RUNX3 methylation and negative RUNX3 protein expression in the eutopic endometrium from the EAOC group was significantly higher than that in the EM and CE groups. An inverse correlation between positive RUNX3 protein expression and methylation was observed and a positive correlation was shown between RUNX3 methylation and ERα protein expression. In the malignant ovarian endometriotic cysts from the EAOC group, there was no significant correlation between methylation frequency of the RUNX3 gene and histological type. However, the percentage of RUNX3 gene methylation was significantly higher in the tissue samples from patients with surgical stage IC EAOC than the percentage in patients with stage IA and IB disease. These results suggest that RUNX3 inactivation by promoter hypermethylation plays a role in the progression of malignant transformation of ovarian EM and is closely related to estrogen metabolism. Negative protein expression and abnormal RUNX3 methylation in the eutopic endometrium could be used as diagnostic markers in patients with ovarian EM who may be at an increased risk of developing EAOC.
Author information:(1)Department of Molecular Pathology, Fujian Provincial Cancer Hospital, Fuzhou 350014, China.(2)E-mail: naichengang@126.com.
The majority of human skeleton develops through the endochondral pathway, in which cartilage-forming chondrocytes proliferate and enlarge into hypertrophic chondrocytes that eventually undergo apoptosis and are replaced by bone. Although at a terminal differentiation stage, hypertrophic chondrocytes have been implicated as the principal engine of bone growth. Abnormal chondrocyte hypertrophy has been seen in many skeletal dysplasia and osteoarthritis. Meanwhile, as a specific marker of hypertrophic chondrocytes, the type X collagen gene (COL10A1) is also critical for endochondral bone formation, as mutation and altered COL10A1 expression are often accompanied by abnormal chondrocyte hypertrophy in many skeletal diseases. However, how the type X collagen gene is regulated during chondrocyte hypertrophy has not been fully elucidated. We have recently demonstrated that Runx2 interaction with a 150-bp mouse Col10a1 cis-enhancer is required but not sufficient for its hypertrophic chondrocyte-specific reporter expression in transgenic mice, suggesting requirement of additional Col10a1 regulators. In this study, we report in silico sequence analysis of this 150-bp enhancer and identification of its multiple binding factors, including AP1, MEF2, NFAT, Runx1 and TBX5. Using this enhancer as bait, we performed yeast one-hybrid assay and identified multiple candidate Col10a1-interacting genes, including cyclooxygenase 1 (Cox-1) and Cox-2. We have also performed mass spectrometry analysis and detected EF1-alpha, Fus, GdF7 and Runx3 as components of the specific complex formed by the cis-enhancer and nuclear extracts from hypertrophic MCT (mouse chondrocytes immortalized with large T antigen) cells that express Col10a1 abundantly. Notably, some of the candidate genes are differentially expressed in hypertrophic MCT cells and have been associated with chondrocyte hypertrophy and Runx2, an indispensible Col10a1 regulator. Intriguingly, we detected high-level Cox-2 expression in hypertrophic MCT cells. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays confirmed the interaction between Cox-2 and Col10a1 cis-enhancer, supporting its role as a candidate Col10a1 regulator. Together, our data support a Cox-2-containing, Runx2-centered Col10a1 regulatory mechanism, during chondrocyte hypertrophic differentiation.
To investigate the impact of histone methyltransferase enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) on the proliferation and apoptosis of human cholangiocarcinoma cells as well as its related mechanisms. Immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses were used to examine the expression of EZH2 in 40 cases of human cholangiocarcinoma tissues and four strains of human cholangiocarcinoma cells. The influence of EZH2 on cell growth and apoptosis were assessed by knockdown experiments, and a xenograft experiment in nude mice was performed to evaluate the impact of siEZH2 on the tumorigenicity of tumor cells. The correlation of EZH2, clinic pathological features and overall survival rates was also analyzed. EZH2 was highly expressed in human cholangiocarcinoma tissues and cells. Silencing of EZH2 could significantly reduce the methylation level of RUNX3 DNA in human cholangiocarcinoma cells and improve its protein expression as well as inhibit cell proliferation, induce apoptosis and slow down the growth of tumor in nude mice. In addition, the expression of EZH2 was associated with the tumor stage, lymph node positivity and poor prognoses. Overexpression of EZH2 can promote the proliferation of cholangiocarcinoma cells and inhibit their apoptosis. It is associated with poor prognoses in patients with cholangiocarcinoma. Therefore, EZH2 could be a potential clinical therapeutic target for the treatment of cholangiocarcinoma.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) is a tumor-suppressor gene and plays an important role in immune regulation, whose reduced expression may play an important role in the development and progression of gastric carcinoma. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of Runx3 on the levels of transcription factors in patients with gastric carcinoma and analyze the relationship between the expression of Runx3 and Th1-type cytokines in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). Our results showed that the expression levels of Runx3, T-bet, and IFN-γ in patients with gastric carcinoma were obviously lower than those in control groups, and there was a positive correlation between the expression of Runx3 and T-bet or IFN-γ in patients (p < 0.01). In order to further confirm this result, the Runx3 gene was constructed into pIRES2-eGFP and the recombined plasmid was transfected into SGC-7901 cells with liposome in vitro, the results obtained from the reverse transcription PCR indicated that the mRNA of Runx3, T-bet, or IFN-γ was significantly upregulated individually in Runx3 gene-transfected SGC-7901 cells. It suggested that the Runx3 and Th1-associated factors including T-bet and IFN-γ synchronization declines in gastric carcinoma may contribute to the development of cancer.
PURPOSE: To investigate the association between CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) and the overall survival of sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC) in Northeast China.METHODS: 282 sporadic CRC patients were recruited in this study. We selected MLH1, MGMT, p16, APC, MINT1, MINT31, and RUNX3 as the CIMP panel markers. The promoter methylation was assessed by methylation sensitive high resolution melting (MS-HRM). Proportional hazards-regression models were fitted with computing hazard ratios (HR) and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CI).RESULTS: 12.77% (36/282) of patients were CIMP-0, 74.1% (209/282) of patients were CIMP-L, and 13.12% (37/282) of patients were CIMP-H. The five-year survival of the 282 CRC patients was 58%. There was significant association between APC gene promoter methylation and CRC overall survival (HR = 1.61; 95% CI: 1.05-2.46; P = 0.03). CIMP-H was significantly associated with worse prognosis compared to CIMP-0 (HR = 3.06; 95% CI: 1.19-7.89; P = 0.02) and CIMP-L (HR = 1.97; 95% CI: 1.11-3.48; P = 0.02), respectively. While comparing with the combine of CIMP-L and CIMP-0 (CIMP-L/0), CIMP-H also presented a worse prognosis (HR = 2.31; 95% CI: 1.02-5.24; P = 0.04).CONCLUSION: CIMP-H may be a predictor of a poor prognosis of CRC in Northeast China patients.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a member of the runt-domain family of transcription factors. Emerging evidence indicates that RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor gene in several types of human cancers including esophageal cancer. However, the association between RUNX3 promoter methylation and esophageal cancer remains unclear. Here we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate the effects of RUNX3 promoter methylation on the incidence of esophageal cancer.METHODS: A detailed literature search was made on Medline, Pubmed and Web of Science for related research publications written in English and/or Chinese. Methodological quality of the studies was also evaluated. The data were extracted and assessed by two reviewers independently. Analysis of pooled data were performed, the odds ratios (OR) were calculated and summarized respectively.RESULTS: Final analysis of 558 patients from 9 eligible studies was performed. The result showed that RUNX3 methylation was significantly higher in esophageal cancer than in normal squamous mucosa from the proximal resection margin or esophageal benign lesions (OR = 2.85, CI = 2.01-4.05, P<0.00001). The prevalence of lymph node involvement, tumor size (T1-T2 vs T3-T4) and histological grade was significantly greater in RUNX3-negative cases (RUNX3 unmethylated groups) than in RUNX3-positive cases (OR = 0.25, CI = 0.14-0.43, P<0.00001). RUNX3 methylation was significantly higher in esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) than Barrett's esophagus (OR = 0.35, CI = 0.20-0.59, P<0.0001). In addition, the pooled HR for overall survival (OS) showed that decreased RUNX3 expression was associated with worse survival in esophageal cancer (HR = 4.31, 95% CI = 2.57-7.37, P<0.00001).CONCLUSIONS: The results of this meta-analysis suggest that RUNX3 methylation is associated with an increased risk, progression as well as worse survival in esophageal cancer. RUNX3 methylation, which induces the inactivation of RUNX3 gene, plays an important role in esophageal carcinogenesis.
OBJECTIVES: The study of polymorphisms of genes differentially expressed may lead to the identification of putative causal genetic variants in multifactorial diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Based on preceding transcriptomic results, we genotyped 10 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) belonging to six genes (S100A8, RNASE2, PGLYRP1, RUNX3, IL2RB, and LY96) showing the highest fold change (> 1.9) when level of expression was compared between RA patients and controls. These SNPs were then analysed to evaluate their role in RA.METHOD: The relationship between gene expression and genotypes of SNPs was first investigated by Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whitney tests in RA patients and controls. The genetic association of these SNPs with RA were then analysed using family-based association tests in trio families.RESULTS: We found that RNASE2 gene expression was related to rs2013109 genotypes in 14 RA patients (p = 0.030). The association study in a discovery sample of 200 French trio families revealed a significant association with RA for one SNP, PGLYRP1-rs2041992 (p = 0.019); this association was stronger in trios where RA patients carried the HLA-DRB1 shared epitope (SE) (p = 0.003). However, this association was not found in a replication sample of 240 European trio families (p = 0.6).CONCLUSIONS: Family-based association tests did not reveal an association between RA and any SNP of the candidate genes tested. However, RNASE2 gene expression was differentially expressed in RA patients considering a sequence polymorphism. This result led us to highlight the potential disease-specific regulation for this candidate gene in RA.
Differentiation of CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic αβ T cells from CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes involves upregulation of lineage-specifying transcription factors and transcriptional silencing of CD8 or CD4 coreceptors, respectively, in MHC class II or I (MHCII or I)-restricted thymocytes. In this study, we demonstrate that inactivation of the Dicer RNA endonuclease in murine thymocytes impairs initiation of Cd4 and Cd8 silencing, leading to development of positively selected MHCI- and MHCII-restricted mature CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes. Expression of the antiapoptotic BCL2 protein or inactivation of the p53 proapoptotic protein rescues these thymocytes from apoptosis, increasing their frequency and permitting accumulation of CD4(+)CD8(+) αβ T cells in the periphery. Dicer-deficient MHCI-restricted αβ T cells fail to normally silence Cd4 and display impaired induction of the CD8 lineage-specifying transcription factor Runx3, whereas Dicer-deficient MHCII-restricted αβ T cells show impaired Cd8 silencing and impaired induction of the CD4 lineage-specifying transcription factor Thpok. Finally, we show that the Drosha RNA endonuclease, which functions upstream of Dicer in microRNA biogenesis, also regulates Cd4 and Cd8 silencing. Our data demonstrate a previously dismissed function for the microRNA biogenesis machinery in regulating expression of lineage-specifying transcription factors and silencing of Cd4 and Cd8 during αβ T cell differentiation.
Chondrosarcomas rank as the third most common type of bone tumors. In the present study, we demonstrated that expression of the apolipoprotein B mRNA-editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3B (APOBEC3B) was higher in cancer tissues when compared to that in normal tissues. In order to further investigate the effects of APOBEC3B expression, we knocked down APOBEC3B expression in chondrosarcoma cells. We found that the percentage of apoptotic cells was higher in the APOBEC3B-knockdown cells than the percentage in the untransfected cells. Furthermore, we found that the reduced antitumor activity of RUNX3 was caused by APOBEC3B. Finally, we demonstrated that caspase-3, -8 and -9 activity was significantly increased in the RUNX3-expressing cells with APOBEC3B knockdown. In summary, our results indicate that APOBEC3B knockdown may be a useful therapy to enhance apoptosis in chondrosarcoma.
Despite years of research into bone formation, the mechanisms by which transcription factors specify growth plate development and trabecular bone formation remain unclear and the role of hypertrophic chondrocytes in trabeculae morphogenesis is controversial. To study the role of Core binding factor beta (Cbfβ) in postnatal cartilage development and endochondral bone formation, we generated chondrocyte-specific Cbfβ-deficient mice (Cbfβf/fCol2α1-Cre mice) using floxed alleles of Cbfβ (Cbfβf/f) and Cre driven by the Collagen 2α1 promoter (Col2α1-Cre). Cbfβf/fCol2α1-Cre mice evaded developmental and newborn lethality to survive to adulthood and displayed severe skeletal malformation. Cbfβf/fCol2α1-Cre mice had dwarfism, hypoplastic skeletons, defective bone mineralization, shortened limbs, shortened sternum bodies, and un-calcified occipital bones and hyoid bones. In the long bone cartilage, the resting zone was elongated, and chondrocyte proliferation and hypertrophy were impaired in Cbfβf/fCol2α1-Cre mice, which led to deformation of the growth plates. Primary spongiosa formation was delayed, diaphysis was shortened and trabecular bone formation was almost absent in the mutant mice. In addition, lamellar bone formation in the secondary spongiosa was also impaired. However, osteoclast formation in the trabecular bone was not affected. Cbfβ deficiency led to down-regulation of chondrocyte-regulating genes [i.e, patched (Ptc1), Cyclin D1 and Indian hedgehog (Ihh)] in the cartilage. Interestingly, the expression of Runx2 and Runx3 was not changed in the cartilage of the mutants. Collectively, the results revealed that Cbfβ is crucial for postnatal skeletal development and endochondral bone formation through its function in growth plate development and chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation. This study also revealed that chondrocyte maturation, mediated by Cbfβ, was critical to trabecular bone morphogenesis. Significantly, these findings provide insight into the role of Cbfβ in postnatal skeletogenesis, which may assist in the development of new therapies for osteoporosis.
Comment in    Gut Liver. 2015 Mar;9(2):139-40.
Comment in    Immunity. 2014 Aug 21;41(2):169-71.
Comment on    Immunity. 2014 Aug 21;41(2):244-56.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2014 Oct;15(10):900-2.
Runt domain transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is widely regarded as a tumour-suppressor gene inactivated by DNA hypermethylation of its canonical CpG (cytidine-phosphate-guanidine) island (CGI) promoter in gastric cancer (GC). Absence of RUNX3 expression from normal gastric epithelial cells (GECs), the progenitors to GC, coupled with frequent RUNX3 overexpression in GC progression, challenge this longstanding paradigm. However, epigenetic models to better describe RUNX3 deregulation in GC have not emerged. Here, we identify lineage-specific DNA methylation at an alternate, non-CGI promoter (P1) as a new mechanism of RUNX3 epigenetic control. In normal GECs, P1 was hypermethylated and repressed, whereas in immune lineages P1 was hypomethylated and widely expressed. In human GC development, we detected aberrant P1 hypomethylation signatures associated with the early inflammatory, preneoplastic and tumour stages. Aberrant P1 hypomethylation was fully recapitulated in mouse models of gastric inflammation and tumorigenesis. Cell sorting showed that P1 hypomethylation reflects altered cell-type composition of the gastric epithelium/tumour microenvironment caused by immune cell recruitment, not methylation loss. Finally, via long-term culture of gastric tumour epithelium, we revealed that de novo methylation of the RUNX3 canonical CGI promoter is a bystander effect of oncogenic immortalization and not likely causal in GC pathogenesis as previously argued. We propose a new model of RUNX3 epigenetic control in cancer, based on immune-specific, non-CGI promoter hypomethylation. This novel epigenetic signature may have utility in early detection of GC and possibly other epithelial cancers with premalignant immune involvement.
The RUNX genes encode transcription factors involved in development and human disease. RUNX1 and RUNX3 are frequently associated with leukemias, yet the basis for their involvement in leukemogenesis is not fully understood. Here, we show that Runx1;Runx3 double-knockout (DKO) mice exhibited lethal phenotypes due to bone marrow failure and myeloproliferative disorder. These contradictory clinical manifestations are reminiscent of human inherited bone marrow failure syndromes such as Fanconi anemia (FA), caused by defective DNA repair. Indeed, Runx1;Runx3 DKO cells showed mitomycin C hypersensitivity, due to impairment of monoubiquitinated-FANCD2 recruitment to DNA damage foci, although FANCD2 monoubiquitination in the FA pathway was unaffected. RUNX1 and RUNX3 interact with FANCD2 independently of CBFβ, suggesting a nontranscriptional role for RUNX in DNA repair. These findings suggest that RUNX dysfunction causes DNA repair defect, besides transcriptional misregulation, and promotes the development of leukemias and other cancers.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a potential tumor suppressor that is frequently hypermethylated in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The present meta-analysis of case-control studies was carried out to determine whether RUNX3 hypermethylation is associated with HCC. The PubMed, Embase, and Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure databases were searched for all relevant studies published between May 2000 and May 2012. A total of 11 studies were identified, and 8 studies involving 491 patients with HCC and 409 patients without tumors were found to satisfy the inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis. All tissue samples were from Asian populations. There was significant heterogeneity between the studies. Over the entire sample, the odds ratio (OR) of RUNX3 promoter methylation was 18.5 [95% confidence interval (CI), 11.6-29.6] for HCC tissues relative to control tissues. The ORs of RUNX3 methylation were 16.6 (95%CI = 6.5-42.4) for tumor tissues relative to tumor-adjacent tissues in patients with HCC, 67.3 (95%CI = 13.0-348.5) for tumor tissues from patients with HCC relative to liver tissues from patients with non-neoplastic liver diseases, and 3.26 (95%CI = 1.54-6.90) for tissues from patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV)- related HCC relative to liver tissues from patients with HCC unrelated to HCV. There was no association between RUNX3 methylation and age, gender, pathological stage, or hepatitis B virus infection in HCC tissues. Methylation of the RUNX3 promoter strongly correlated with HCC in Asian populations, especially in individuals with HCV-related HCC, and may be a useful marker for HCC diagnosis in these populations.
Author information:(1)Department of General Surgery, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510280, China. E-mail: weiaice@qq.com.
BACKGROUND: The RUNX family, which is composed of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3, is a sequence-specific transcription factor family and is closely involved in a variety of cellular processes including development, differentiation, participation in the regulation of p53-dependent DNA damage response and/or tumorigenesis. Emerging evidence indicates that RUNX3 is a candidate tumor suppressor in several types of human tumors including colorectal cancer (CRC). However, the correlation of RUNX3 inactivation with CRC remains unclear. In the study reported here, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to quantitatively evaluate the effects of RUNX3 hypermethylation/expression on the incidence of CRC.METHODS: A detailed search of the literature was made using Medline(®) and Web of Science for related research publications written in English. The methodological quality of the studies was also evaluated. The data were extracted and assessed by two reviewers independently. Analyses of the pooled data were performed. Odds ratios (ORs) and hazard ratios were calculated and summarized, respectively.RESULTS: A final analysis of 1,427 CRC patients from eleven eligible studies was performed. We observed that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in CRC than in normal colorectal mucosa. The pooled OR from six studies comprising 289 CRC and 188 normal colorectal mucosa was OR =0.07 (confidence interval [CI] =0.03-0.18, P<0.00001). Aberrant RUNX3 hypermethylation/expression was significantly higher in advanced CRC than in early staged CRC (OR =0.54, CI =0.41-0.71, P<0.0001). Aberrant RUNX3 hypermethylation/expression was also significantly higher in microsatellite instability (MSI)-positive CRC than in MSI-negative CRC (OR =0.44, CI =0.3-0.66, P<0.0001). In addition, CRC patients with RUNX3 hypermethylation or lacking RUNX3 protein expression had a lower survival rate than those without RUNX3 hypermethylation or those who did not express RUNX3 protein.CONCLUSION: The results of this meta-analysis suggest that RUNX3 hypermethylation is associated with an increased risk of CRC, increased risk of progression of CRC, and a poorer CRC survival rate. RUNX3 hypermethylation, which induces the inactivation of RUNX3 gene, plays an important role in colorectal carcinogenesis, high levels of MSI, as well as CRC progression and development.
Emerging evidence indicates that RUNX3 is a candidate tumor suppressor in several types of human tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the correlation between RUNX3 hypermethylation and incidence of HCC remains unclear. Here, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis aiming to comprehensively assess the potential role of RUNX3 hypermethylation in the pathogenesis of HCC. A detailed literature search was made from PubMed, EMBASE, and ISI web of knowledge to identify studies for related research publications. Methodological quality of the studies was also evaluated. The data were extracted and assessed by two reviewers independently. Analysis of pooled data was performed. Odds ratio (OR) was calculated and summarized, respectively. Final analysis of 821 HCC patients from 14 eligible studies was performed. We observed that RUNX3 hypermethylation was significantly higher in HCC than in normal liver tissue, the pooled OR from eight studies including 382 HCC and 161 normal liver tissue (OR = 39.32, 95 % confidence interval (CI) = 13.72-112.7, p < 0.00001). The pooled analysis showed significantly increased OR of RUNX3 hypermethylation (OR = 5.4, 95 % CI = 2.06-14.17, p < 0.00001) in HCC tissues and non-tumor liver tissues. In addition, statistically significant OR of RUNX3 hypermethylation was obtained from non-tumorous liver tissue of HCC patients and normal liver tissue (OR = 12.57, 95 % CI = 3.56-44.35, p < 0.0001). The results of this meta-analysis suggest that RUNX3 hypermethylation may be implicated in the pathogenesis of HCC. Thus, detection of RUNX3 hypermethylation may be a helpful and valuable biomarker for diagnosis of HCC.
Author information:(1)Department of Cadre Surgery, the Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, Nanchang 330006, China.(2)Department of Cadre Surgery, the Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, Nanchang 330006, China. Email: jxnczk@163.com.
RUNX3 functions as a tumor suppressor in the gastric epithelium, where its inactivation is frequently observed during carcinogenesis. We identified IL23A as a RUNX3 target gene in gastric epithelial cells. This was confirmed in a series of in vitro analyses in gastric epithelial cell lines. In elucidating the underlying regulatory network, we uncovered a prominent role for the TNF-α/NF-κB pathway in activating IL23A transcription. Moreover, the activating effect of TNF-α was markedly augmented by the infection of Helicobacter pylori, the primary cause of human gastritis. Of note, H. pylori utilized the CagA/SHP2 pathway to activate IL23A, as well as the induction of the NOD1 pathway by iE-DAP. Importantly, RUNX3 synergized strongly with these physiologically relevant stimuli to induce IL23A. Lastly, we present evidence for the secretion of IL23A by gastric epithelial cells in a form that is distinct from canonical IL-23 (IL23A/IL12B).
The Runt-related transcription factor (Runx) family consists of three members, Runx1, Runx2 and Runx3 in mammals, which are involved in various biological processes. Recent studies have demonstrated that Runx1 plays critical roles in the immunity of higher vertebrates. In fish, zebrafish and fugu Runx family members have been identified, and their chromosome location, promoter usage and expression patterns have been elucidated. However, their expression profiles in immune responses are still unknown. In this study, we identified grass carp five Runx1 (gcRunx1) variants (v1-5) possibly generated through alternative promoter usage and alternative splicing. The gcRunx1 v1-3 encodes the proteins possessing intact structural characteristics of Runx family, but the putative proteins of gcRunx1 v4-5 lack a transactivation domain, an inhibitory domain and a C-terminal pentapeptide motif (VWRPY). Tissue distribution assays revealed that gcRunx1 was preferentially expressed in some immune-related tissues including thymus and spleen, indicating its potential roles in teleost immunity. The changes of gcRunx1 expression to various immune stimuli was examined in periphery blood lymphocytes, showing that gcRunx1 v1-3 mRNA levels were increased after LPS, poly I:C and PHA treatment, whereas gcRunx1 v4-5 mRNA expression were stimulated only by LPS and PHA. Furthermore, in vivo studies confirmed that bacterial challenge enhanced gcRunx1 mRNA levels. In particular, in vitro and in vivo studies revealed that gcRunx1 v4-5 mRNA expression was induced with a delayed kinetics compared with that of gcRunx1 v1-3. These findings not only provide the evidence for the involvement of gcRunx1 in immune response, but also reveal the inducible expression diversity of fish Runx1 splicing variants, thereby facilitating further elucidating the role of Runx1 in piscine immunity.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2014 Aug;15(8):701-3.
BACKGROUND: Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a known regulator in the transforming growth factor (TGF)-β signaling pathway, which promoter methylation playing a crucial role in diverse neoplasias. However, the relationship between RUNX3 promoter methylation and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains to be clarified.METHODS: We searched Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Central, and Chinese Biological Medicine database, for articles published in English or Chinese until March 7, 2014. Our main analyses were focused on the association between RUNX3 promoter methylation and risk of NSCLC by meta-analysis methods. If heterogeneity was observed, we used random effects model to calculate the overall odds ratios, otherwise fixed effects model was used. Subgroup analyses and meta-regression analyses were employed to detect the sources of the heterogeneity. Sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the stability of our studies. A funnel plot and Egger's test were conducted to investigate any potential publication bias.RESULTS: A total of 1,368 samples from 13 literatures were involved in this meta-analysis. The pooled odds ratio (OR) of RUNX3 methylation in NSCLC specimens compared to non-cancer controls was 6.70 [95% confidence interval (CI): 4.64-9.67]. In the analysis of specimen-types subgroup, the summary OR was 5.79 (95% CI: 3.97-8.46) for tissue specimen subgroup, and that was 45.64 (95% CI: 5.89-353.72) for serum specimen subgroup. The ORs for the age ≤60 years, 60-65 years and >65 years subgroup were 5.19 (95% CI: 3.27-8.24), 9.45 (95% CI: 2.45-36.45) and 13.23 (95% CI: 5.59-31.28) respectively. The result of meta-regression indicated that age was fundamental source of heterogeneity (coefficient =0.61, P=0.046, adjusted R(2) =100%). No publication bias was detected. In cancer specimens, the RUNX3 methylation was associated with histological type of the NSCLC, but no significant differences were found for RUNX3 methylation in relation to gender, smoking history, tumor TNM stage or tumor differentiation level.CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis of pooled data provides additional evidence to support a strong association between methylation of the RUNX3 promoter and NSCLC. RUNX3 methylation was increasing with age.
Carcinogen-induced skin tumorigenesis depends heavily on proinflammatory tumor-promoting processes. Here, we show that leukocytic Runx3 expression is central to the two-stage DMBA/TPA-induced skin tumorigenesis. Runx3-null mice were highly resistant to this process and concomitant ablation of Runx3 in dendritic and T cells fully recapitulated this resistance. Mechanistically, this resistance was associated with a shift in the skin cytokine milieu toward a tumor nonpermissive microenvironment. Specifically, leukocytic Runx3 loss substantially increased the antitumorigenic cytokine thymic stromal lymphopoietin (TSLP) and profoundly decreased two protumorigenic cytokines, interleukin-17a and osteopontin. Therefore, inflammation-mediated tumor promotion requires leukocytic Runx3 expression, as its loss creates a unique cytokine composition that polarizes the tumor microenvironment to a potent antitumorigenic state.
Neurocysticercosis, a clinically and radiologically pleomorphic parasitic disease, is still endemic to most non-developed countries of Latin America, Africa, and Asia. Anti-helminthic drugs (AHD) are generally effective and rapidly destroy parenchymal cysticerci. In contrast, several cycles of AHD are frequently necessary to damage extraparenchymally located parasites. The present study was designed to evaluate whether differences in the immunological profile of the patients is involved in the diversity of the response to AHD. To this end, a global gene expression microarray and a cytokine analysis were made. Responder patients were those showing a radiological reduction greater than 50 % in the parasite burden following AHD treatment. Microarray pre- and post-treatment comparisons showed that a total of eighteen immune-related genes were up-regulated in the five responder patients with respect the expression profile seen in the four non-responder subjects. The function of up-regulated genes exerted pro-inflammatory (RORγC, Sema4A, SLAMF3, SLAMF6), anti-inflammatory (TGFβ, TNFRSF25, TNFRS18, SLAMF1, ILF2), or immunomodulatory effects (CXCL2, RUNX3, SLAMF9, TGFBR3). To further explore the causes of the heterogeneity in the response to treatment, a wide ELISA cytokine analysis was performed in serum, PBMC supernatants, and CSF samples from 39 responder and 26 non-responder patients. Responder patients showed higher CSF IL-17A levels (P = 0.04) and higher supernatant IL-6 levels (P = 0.03) 60 days after treatment. These results suggest a possible influence of pro-inflammatory cytokines on the response to AHD as observed by radiological methods, and thus the possible participation of the host immunity in the effectiveness of AHD treatment.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) has recently been reported to be a possible predictor of sensitivity of cancer cells for photodynamic therapy (PDT), a promising therapeutic modality for keloids. In this study, we aimed to elucidate the implications of RUNX3 for keloid pathogenesis and sensitivity to pheophorbide a-based PDT (Pa-PDT). RUNX3 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression were examined in 6 normal skin samples and 32 keloid tissue samples by immunohistochemistry. We found that RUNX3 expression was detected more often in keloid tissues than in dermis of normal skin. In keloid tissues, RUNX3 expression was significantly increased in patients presenting with symptoms of pain or pruritus, and was also significantly related to PCNA expression. The therapeutic effect of Pa-PDT was comparatively investigated in keloid fibroblasts (KFs) with and without RUNX3 expression. Significant differences were found after Pa-PDT between KFs with and without RUNX3 expression in cell viability, proliferative ability, type I collagen expression, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and apoptotic cell death. In addition, RUNX3 expression was significantly decreased after Pa-PDT in KFs, and KFs with downregulation of RUNX3 showed significantly increased cell viability after Pa-PDT. Pa-PDT may be a potential therapeutic modality for keloids, and RUNX3, as a possible contributor to keloid pathogenesis, may improve sensitivity to Pa-PDT in KFs.
Comment on    Nat Immunol. 2014 Jul;15(7):646-56.
We investigated the clinical significance of RUNX3 gene expression in human pancreatic carcinoma. Five samples of pancreatic tissues and 30 samples of pancreatic cancer tissues and paracancerous tissues were collected. RUNX3 expression was detected by real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. The relationships between clinicopathological findings and the expression of RUNX3 were analyzed. The relative quantification level of RUNX3 mRNA expression in human pancreatic carcinoma tissues and paracancerous tissues was 2.60 (0.42-12.82) and 1.02 (0.19-3.58), respectively (P < 0.05). The percentage of positive cells expressing RUNX3 protein in human pancreatic tissues and paracancerous tissues was 45.5 ± 26.2 and 6.9 ± 6.0%, respectively (P < 0.01). The high RUNX3 group (N = 9) with 45.5% or more of the cancer cells staining for RUNX3 and the low RUNX3 group (N = 21) with less than 45.5% cancer cells staining for RUNX3. Low expression of RUNX3 correlated significantly with an advanced TNM stage (χ(2) = 6.897, P = 0.045), lymph node metastasis (χ(2) = 4.739, P = 0.029) and neural invasion (χ(2) = 5.44, P = 0.020). On the other hand, no association could be found between RUNX3 expression and clinicopathological variables including age, gender, tumor location, tumor size, tumor differentiation or the serum concentration of CEA and CA199. The expression of RUNX3 in pancreatic cancer tissues was obviously higher than that in the paracancerous tissues. Low expression of RUNX3 may have an important role in aggressiveness, lymph node metastasis and neural invasion in pancreatic cancer. In pancreatic carcinoma tissues, low expression of RUNX3 may indicate a poor prognosis.
The tumour suppressor gene silencing and proto-oncogene activation caused by epigenetic alterations plays an important role in the initiation and progression of cancer. Re-establishing the balance between the expression of tumour suppressor genes and proto-oncogenes by epigenetic modulation is a promising strategy for cancer treatment. In this study, we investigated whether cancer cells can be epigenetically reprogrammed by oocyte extract. H460 human lung cancer cells were reversibly permeabilized and incubated with the extract of bovine parthenogenetic oocytes. Bisulphite sequencing showed that bovine parthenogenetic oocyte extract induced significant demethylation at the promoters of the tumour suppressor genes RUNX3 and CDH1, but not at the promoter of the oncogenic pluripotency gene SOX2. Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that the histone modifications at RUNX3 and CDH1 promoters were modulated towards a transcriptionally activating state, while those at SOX2 promoter towards a transcriptionally repressive state. Correspondingly, bovine parthenogenetic oocyte extract reversed the epigenetic silencing of RUNX3 and CDH1, and repressed the expression of SOX2. At the functional level, proliferation, anchorage-independent growth, migration and invasion of H460 cells was strongly inhibited. These results indicate that bovine parthenogenetic oocyte extract changes the expression patterns of tumour suppressor and oncogenic genes in cancer cells by remodelling the epigenetic modifications at their promoters. Bovine parthenogenetic oocyte extract may provide a useful tool for epigenetically reprogramming cancer cells and for dissecting the epigenetic mechanisms involved in tumorigenesis.
Lineage fate in the thymus is determined by mutually exclusive expression of the transcription factors ThPOK and Runx3, with ThPOK imposing the CD4(+) lineage fate and Runx3 promoting the CD8(+) lineage fate. While it is known that cytokine signals induce thymocytes to express Runx3, it is not known how ThPOK prevents thymocytes from expressing Runx3 and adopting the CD8(+) lineage fate, nor is it understood why ThPOK itself imposes the CD4(+) lineage fate on thymocytes. We now report that genes encoding members of the SOCS (suppressor of cytokine signaling) family are critical targets of ThPOK and that their induction by ThPOK represses Runx3 expression and promotes the CD4(+) lineage fate. Thus, induction of SOCS-encoding genes is the main mechanism by which ThPOK imposes the CD4(+) lineage fate in the thymus.
Human endometrium undergoes major gene expression changes, resulting in altered cellular functions in response to cyclic variations in circulating estradiol and progesterone, largely mediated by transcription factors and nuclear receptors. In addition to classic modulators, epigenetic mechanisms regulate gene expression during development in response to environmental factors and in some diseases and have roles in steroid hormone action. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that DNA methylation plays a role in gene expression regulation in human endometrium in different hormonal milieux. High throughput, genome-wide DNA methylation profiling of endometrial samples in proliferative, early secretory, and midsecretory phases revealed dynamic DNA methylation patterns with segregation of proliferative from secretory phase samples by unsupervised cluster analysis of differentially methylated genes. Changes involved different frequencies of gain and loss of methylation within or outside CpG islands. Comparison of changes in transcriptomes and corresponding DNA methylomes from the same samples revealed association of DNA methylation and gene expression in a number of loci, some important in endometrial biology. Human endometrial stromal fibroblasts treated in vitro with estradiol and progesterone exhibited DNA methylation changes in several genes observed in proliferative and secretory phase tissues, respectively. Taken together, the data support the observation that epigenetic mechanisms are involved in gene expression regulation in human endometrium in different hormonal milieux, adding endometrium to a small number of normal adult tissues exhibiting dynamic DNA methylation. The data also raise the possibility that the interplay between steroid hormone and methylome dynamics regulates normal endometrial functions and, if abnormal, may result in endometrial dysfunction and associated disorders.
BACKGROUND & AIMS: The CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP), defined by a high frequency of aberrantly methylated genes, is a characteristic of a subclass of colon tumors with distinct clinical and molecular features. Cohort studies have produced conflicting results on responses of CIMP-positive tumors to chemotherapy. We assessed the association between tumor CIMP status and survival of patients receiving adjuvant fluorouracil and leucovorin alone or with irinotecan (IFL).METHODS: We analyzed data from patients with stage III colon adenocarcinoma randomly assigned to groups given fluorouracil and leucovorin or IFL after surgery, from April 1999 through April 2001. The primary end point of the trial was overall survival and the secondary end point was disease-free survival. DNA isolated from available tumor samples (n = 615) was used to determine CIMP status based on methylation patterns at the CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1 loci. The effects of CIMP on survival were modeled using Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards; interactions with treatment and BRAF, KRAS, and mismatch repair (MMR) status were also investigated.RESULTS: Of the tumor samples characterized for CIMP status, 145 were CIMP positive (23%). Patients with CIMP-positive tumors had shorter overall survival times than patients with CIMP-negative tumors (hazard ratio = 1.36; 95% confidence interval: 1.01-1.84). Treatment with IFL showed a trend toward increased overall survival for patients with CIMP-positive tumors, compared with treatment with fluorouracil and leucovorin (hazard ratio = 0.62; 95% CI: 0.37-1.05; P = .07), but not for patients with CIMP-negative tumors (hazard ratio = 1.38; 95% CI: 1.00-1.89; P = .049). In a 3-way interaction analysis, patients with CIMP-positive, MMR-intact tumors benefited most from the addition of irinotecan to fluorouracil and leucovorin therapy (for the interaction, P = .01). CIMP was more strongly associated with response to IFL than MMR status. Results for disease-free survival times were comparable among all analyses.CONCLUSIONS: Patients with stage III, CIMP-positive, MMR-intact colon tumors have longer survival times when irinotecan is added to combination therapy with fluorouracil and leucovorin.
Comment in    Nat Immunol. 2014 Jul;15(7):593-4.
BACKGROUND: The aetiology of systemic sclerosis (SSc) is not clear, but there is an emerging evidence of gene-specific epigenetic dysregulation in the pathogenesis of SSc.METHODS: We performed a genome-wide DNA methylation study in dermal fibroblasts in six diffuse cutaneous SSc (dSSc) patients, six limited cutaneous SSc (lSSc) patients compared with 12 age-matched, sex-matched and ethnicity-matched healthy controls. Cytosine methylation was quantified in more than 485 000 methylation sites across the genome. Differentially methylated CpG sites between patients and controls with a fold difference ≥1.2 were identified. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR was performed to assess correlation between DNA methylation changes and gene expression levels.RESULTS: We identified 2710 and 1021 differentially methylated CpG sites in dSSc and lSSc, respectively. Of the differentially methylated sites, 61% in dSSc and 90% in lSSc were hypomethylated. There were only 203 CpG sites differentially methylated in both dSSc and lSSc, representing 118 hypomethylated and 6 hypermethylated genes. Common hypomethylated genes include ITGA9, encoding an α integrin. Other relevant genes such as ADAM12, COL23A1, COL4A2 and MYO1E, and transcription factors genes RUNX1, RUNX2 and RUNX3 were also hypomethylated in both dSSc and lSSc. Pathway analysis of differentially methylated genes in both dSSc and lSSc revealed enrichment of genes involved in extracellular matrix-receptor interaction and focal adhesion. We demonstrate significant correlation between DNA methylation status and gene expression in the majority of genes evaluated.CONCLUSIONS: Our data highlight common and subset-specific aberrancies in dSSc and lSSc fibroblasts at the epigenomic levels and identify novel candidate genes in SSc.
Ewing sarcoma is an aggressive pediatric small round cell tumor that predominantly occurs in bone. Approximately 85% of Ewing sarcomas harbor the EWS/FLI fusion protein, which arises from a chromosomal translocation, t(11:22)(q24:q12). EWS/FLI interacts with numerous lineage-essential transcription factors to maintain mesenchymal progenitors in an undifferentiated state. We previously showed that EWS/FLI binds the osteogenic transcription factor RUNX2 and prevents osteoblast differentiation. In this study, we investigated the role of another Runt-domain protein, RUNX3, in Ewing sarcoma. RUNX3 participates in mesenchymal-derived bone formation and is a context dependent tumor suppressor and oncogene. RUNX3 was detected in all Ewing sarcoma cells examined, whereas RUNX2 was detected in only 73% of specimens. Like RUNX2, RUNX3 binds to EWS/FLI via its Runt domain. EWS/FLI prevented RUNX3 from activating the transcription of a RUNX-responsive reporter, p6OSE2. Stable suppression of RUNX3 expression in the Ewing sarcoma cell line A673 delayed colony growth in anchorage independent soft agar assays and reversed expression of EWS/FLI-responsive genes. These results demonstrate an important role for RUNX3 in Ewing sarcoma.
Transcription factors of the RUNX family (RUNXs), which play pivotal roles in normal development and neoplasia, are regulated by various post-translational modifications. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of RUNXs, we performed a large-scale functional genetic screen of a fly mutant library. The screen identified dPias (the fly ortholog of mammalian PIASs), an E3 ligase for the SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifier) modification, as a novel genetic modifier of lz (the fly ortholog of mammalian RUNX3). Molecular biological analysis revealed that lz/RUNXs are sumoylated by dPias/PIAS1 at an evolutionarily conserved lysine residue (K372 of lz, K144 of RUNX1, K181 of RUNX2 and K148 of RUNX3). PIAS1-mediated sumoylation inhibited RUNX3 transactivation activity, and this modification was promoted by the AKT1 kinase. Importantly, PIAS1 failed to sumoylate some RUNX1 mutants associated with breast cancer. In nude mice, tumorigenicity was promoted by RUNX3 bearing a mutation in the sumoylation site, but suppressed by wild-type RUNX3. Our results suggest that RUNXs are sumoylated by PIAS1, and that this modification could play a critical role in the regulation of the tumor-suppressive activity of these proteins.
Gastric cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide. Resistance to chemotherapy is a significant barrier for effective cancer treatment. Here, we identified miR-185 to be a contributor to chemosensitivity in gastric cancer. We observed low levels of miR-185 in gastric cancer cell lines and clinical tissues, compared with gastric epithelium cell line and noncancerous tissues. Furthermore, enforced expression of miR-185 increased the sensitivity of gastric cancer cells to low-dose chemotherapeutic agents, which alone cannot trigger significant apoptosis. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous miR-185 prevented high-dose chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. In elucidating the molecular mechanism by which miR-185 participated in the regulation of chemosensitivity in gastric cancer, we discovered that apoptosis repressor with caspase recruitment domain (ARC) is a direct target of miR-185. The role of miR-185 was confirmed in gastric tumor xenograft model. The growth of established tumors was suppressed by a combination therapy using enforced miR-185 expression and a low dose of anticancer drugs. Finally, we found that RUNX3 (Runt-related transcription factor) was involved in the activation of miR-185 at the transcriptional level. Taken together, our results reveal that RUNX3, miR-185 and ARC regulate the sensitivity of gastric cancer cells to chemotherapy.
BACKGROUND: Aberrations in the function of the WNT signaling pathway have been recently implicated in the pathogenesis of head and neck cancer, and the hypermethylation of several WNT cascade inhibitors were shown to be useful in disease prognosis. However, the extent of deregulation of WNT pathway by DNA hypermethylation has not been studied in detail in laryngeal cancer so far. The aim of this study was to establish the frequency of methylation of WNT pathway negative regulators in laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas and evaluate its prognostic significance.METHODS: Twenty-six laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma cell lines and samples obtained from twenty-eight primary laryngeal carcinoma patients were analyzed. The methylation status of DKK1, LKB1, PPP2R2B, RUNX3, SFRP1, SFRP2, and WIF-1 was assessed using the methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: Frequent hypermethylation of DKK1, PPP2R2B, SFRP1, SFRP2, and WIF-1 was detected, and a high methylation index was usually observed. Half of the cell lines analyzed and seventy percent of primary laryngeal carcinoma cases were characterized by the methylation of at least four genes. The hypermethylation of PPP2R2B or WIF-1 was associated with longer survival in laryngeal carcinoma cell lines. Moreover, the concurrent methylation of PPP2R2B and SFRP1 differentiated primary from recurrent laryngeal carcinoma cell lines.CONCLUSIONS: Frequent hypermethylation of WNT pathway negative regulators is observed in laryngeal squamous cell carcinomas. The possible prognostic significance of the methylation of DKK1, PPP2R2B, and SFRP1 needs to be evaluated in further prospective studies.
Dysfunction of endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) contribute to diabetic vascular disease. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of diverse cellular processes, including angiogenesis. We recently reported that downregulated miR-130a in patients with Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) results in EPC dysfunction, including increased apoptosis, likely via its target runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3). However, whether miR-130a affects the autophagy of EPC is unknown. The aim of the present study was to explore the effects of miR-130a on the autophagy and cell death of EPC, as well as their expression of Beclin 1 (BECN1; an initiator of autophagosome formation) and the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl2 (which binds to and inactivates BECN1), and the role of Runx3 in mediating these effects. The EPC were cultured from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of diabetic patients and non-diabetic controls. Cells were transfected with an miR-130a inhibitor, or mimic-miR-130a or mimic-miR-130a plus lentiviral vector expressing Runx3 to manipulate miR-130a and/or Runx3 levels. The number of autophagosomes was counted under transmission electron microscopy and cell death was examined by flow cytometry. The mRNA expression of Beclin1 was measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction and the protein expression of Beclin1 and Bcl2 was determined by western blotting. Both the number of autophagosomes and Beclin1 expression were increased in EPC from patients with DM. Inhibition of miR-130a increased the number of autophagosomes and Beclin1 expression, but attenuated Bcl2 expression. Overexpression of miR-130a decreased the number of autophagosomes, cell death and Beclin1 expression, but promoted Bcl2 expression; these effects were mediated by Runx3. In conclusion, miR-130a is important for maintaining normal autophagy levels and promoting the survival of EPC via regulation of Bcl-2 and Beclin1 expression, via Runx3. MiR-130a may be a regulator linking apoptosis and the autophagy of EPC.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of CpG-oligodeoxynucelotides (CpG-ODN) on the proliferation of the A549 human lung adenocarcinoma cell line and the expression of Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) and investigate the association between the toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) signaling pathway and Runx3 expression during A549 cell proliferation. Different concentrations of CpG-ODN were used in this study to stimulate A549 cells and the expression of Runx3 at the mRNA or protein level was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction or western blot analysis. Moreover, Runx3 siRNA was synthesized and transiently transfected into the A549 cells and the MTT assay was used to detect the effects of CpG-ODN on transfected cell growth. Our data demonstrated that CpG-ODN significantly inhibited the proliferation of A549 cells. The expression of Runx3 in the mRNA and protein level was increased in A549 cells stimulated by CpG-ODN. The CpG-ODN-stimulated cell proliferation was significantly inhibited in Runx3 siRNA-transfected A549 cells. In conclusion, CpG-ODN may bind to TLR9, inhibit the proliferation of A549 cells and upregulate the expression of Runx3.
Infection with Helicobacter pylori is established as the major risk factor for gastric cancer development. Damage of the mucosal barrier due to H. pylori-induced inflammation enhances the carcinogenic effect of other risk factors such as salt intake or tobacco smoking. The genetic disposition of both the bacterial strain and the host can increase the potential towards gastric cancer formation. Genetic variance of the bacterial proteins CagA and VacA is associated with a higher gastric cancer risk, as are polymorphisms and epigenetic changes in host gene coding for interleukins (IL1β, IL8), transcription factors (CDX2, RUNX3) and DNA repair enzymes. Application of high-throughput assays for genome-wide assessment of either genetic structural variance or gene expression patterns may lead to a better understanding of the pathobiological background of these processes, including the underlying signaling pathways. Understanding of the stepwise alterations that take place in the transition from chronic atrophic gastritis, via metaplastic changes, to invasive neoplasia is vital to define the 'point of no return' before which eradication of H. pylori has the potential to prevent gastric cancer. Currently, eradication as preventive strategy is only recommended for high-incidence regions in Asia; large population studies with an adequate follow-up are required to demonstrate the effectiveness of such an approach in Western populations.
OBJECTIVE: Endoscopic surveillance for Barrett's oesophagus (BO) is limited by sampling error and the subjectivity of diagnosing dysplasia. We aimed to compare a biomarker panel on minimal biopsies directed by autofluorescence imaging (AFI) with the standard surveillance protocol to derive an objective tool for dysplasia assessment.DESIGN: We performed a cross-sectional prospective study in three tertiary referral centres. Patients with BO underwent high-resolution endoscopy followed by AFI-targeted biopsies. 157 patients completed the biopsy protocol. Aneuploidy/tetraploidy; 9p and 17p loss of heterozygosity; RUNX3, HPP1 and p16 methylation; p53 and cyclin A immunohistochemistry were assessed. Bootstrap resampling was used to select the best diagnostic biomarker panel for high-grade dysplasia (HGD) and early cancer (EC). This panel was validated in an independent cohort of 46 patients.RESULTS: Aneuploidy, p53 immunohistochemistry and cyclin A had the strongest association with dysplasia in the per-biopsy analysis and, as a panel, had an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.97 (95% CI 0.95 to 0.99) for diagnosing HGD/EC. The diagnostic accuracy for HGD/EC of the three-biomarker panel from AFI+ areas was superior to AFI- areas (p<0.001). Compared with the standard protocol, this panel had equal sensitivity for HGD/EC, with a 4.5-fold reduction in the number of biopsies. In an independent cohort of patients, the panel had a sensitivity and specificity for HGD/EC of 100% and 85%, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: A three-biomarker panel on a small number of AFI-targeted biopsies provides an accurate and objective diagnosis of dysplasia in BO. The clinical implications have to be studied further.
The Runx family genes encode transcription factors that play key roles in hematopoiesis, skeletogenesis and neurogenesis and are often implicated in diseases. We describe here the cloning and characterization of Runx1, Runx2, Runx3 and Runxb genes in the elephant shark (Callorhinchus milii), a member of Chondrichthyes, the oldest living group of jawed vertebrates. Through the use of alternative promoters and/or alternative splicing, each of the elephant shark Runx genes expresses multiple isoforms similar to their orthologs in human and other bony vertebrates. The expression profiles of elephant shark Runx genes are similar to those of mammalian Runx genes. The syntenic blocks of genes at the elephant shark Runx gene loci are highly conserved in human, but represented by shorter conserved blocks in zebrafish indicating a higher degree of rearrangements in this teleost fish. Analysis of promoter regions revealed conservation of binding sites for transcription factors, including two tandem binding sites for Runx that are totally conserved in the distal promoter regions of elephant shark Runx1-3. Several conserved noncoding elements (CNEs), which are putative cis-regulatory elements, and miRNA binding sites were identified in the elephant shark and human Runx gene loci. Some of these CNEs and miRNA binding sites are absent in teleost fishes such as zebrafish and fugu. In summary, our analysis reveals that the genomic organization and expression profiles of Runx genes were already complex in the common ancestor of jawed vertebrates.
Author information:(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, Osaka University Graduate School of Dentistry, Japan.
Runx1 and Cbfβ are critical for the establishment of definitive hematopoiesis and are implicated in leukemic transformation. Despite the absolute requirements for these factors in the development of hematopoietic stem cells and lymphocytes, their roles in the development of bone marrow progenitor subsets have not been defined. Here, we demonstrate that Cbfβ is essential for the development of Flt3(+) macrophage-dendritic cell (DC) progenitors in the bone marrow and all DC subsets in the periphery. Besides the loss of DC progenitors, pan-hematopoietic Cbfb-deficient mice also lack CD105(+) erythroid progenitors, leading to severe anemia at 3 to 4 months of age. Instead, Cbfb deficiency results in aberrant progenitor differentiation toward granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs), resulting in a myeloproliferative phenotype with accumulation of GMPs in the periphery and cellular infiltration of the liver. Expression of the transcription factor Irf8 is severely reduced in Cbfb-deficient progenitors, and overexpression of Irf8 restors DC differentiation. These results demonstrate that Runx proteins and Cbfβ restrict granulocyte lineage commitment to facilitate multilineage hematopoietic differentiation and thus identify their novel tumor suppressor function in myeloid leukemia.
Despite the obvious clinical significance of post-stroke angiogenesis in aged subjects, a detailed transcriptomic analysis of post-stroke angiogenesis has not yet been undertaken in an aged experimental model. In this study, by combining stroke transcriptomics with immunohistochemistry in aged rats and post-stroke patients, we sought to identify an age-specific gene expression pattern that may characterize the angiogenic process after stroke. We found that both young and old infarcted rats initiated vigorous angiogenesis. However, the young rats had a higher vascular density by day 14 post-stroke. "New-for-stroke" genes that were linked to the increased vasculature density in young animals included Angpt2, Angptl2, Angptl4, Cib1, Ccr2, Col4a2, Cxcl1, Lef1, Hhex, Lamc1, Nid2, Pcam1, Plod2, Runx3, Scpep1, S100a4, Tgfbi, and Wnt4, which are required for sprouting angiogenesis, reconstruction of the basal lamina (BL), and the resolution phase. The vast majority of genes involved in sprouting angiogenesis (Angpt2, Angptl4, Cib1, Col8a1, Nrp1, Pcam1, Pttg1ip, Rac2, Runx1, Tnp4, Wnt4); reconstruction of a new BL (Col4a2, Lamc1, Plod2); or tube formation and maturation (Angpt1, Gpc3, Igfbp7, Sparc, Tie2, Tnfsf10), had however, a delayed upregulation in the aged rats. The angiogenic response in aged rats was further diminished by the persistent upregulation of "inflammatory" genes (Cxcl12, Mmp8, Mmp12, Mmp14, Mpeg1, Tnfrsf1a, Tnfrsf1b) and vigorous expression of genes required for the buildup of the fibrotic scar (Cthrc1, Il6ra, Il13ar1, Il18, Mmp2, Rassf4, Tgfb1, Tgfbr2, Timp1). Beyond this barrier, angiogenesis in the aged brains was similar to that in young brains. We also found that the aged human brain is capable of mounting a vigorous angiogenic response after stroke, which most likely reflects the remaining brain plasticity of the aged brain.
Helicobacter pylori infection increases age-related diverse overmethylation in gene-control regions, which increases the risk of gastric cancer. The H. pylori-associated overmethylation changes subsequently disappear when gastric atrophy and cancer develop. To identify cancer-risk epigenotypes, we traced dynamic methylation changes in the background mucosa of the stomach depending on the extent of gastric atrophy. Paired biopsy specimens were obtained from the noncancerous antrum and body mucosa of 102 patients with cancer and 114 H. pylori-positive and 112 H. pylori-negative controls. The grade of gastric atrophy was evaluated using the endoscopic atrophic border score. The methylation-variable sites at the CpG-island margins and near the transcriptional start sites lacking CpG islands were semiquantitatively analyzed by radioisotope-labeling methylation-specific PCR. We selected eight housekeeping genes adjacent to Alu (CDH1, ARRDC4, PPARG, and TRAPPC2L) or LTR retroelements (MMP2, CDKN2A, RUNX2, and RUNX3) and eight stomach-specific genes (TFF2, PGC, ATP4B, TFF1, TFF3, GHRL, PGA, and ATP4A). Analysis of age-related methylation in the H. pylori-positive controls revealed slow overmethylation in the body and in the LTR-adjacent genes. A high-frequency overmethylation defined based on the slowly overmethylated genes was frequently observed in the body of patients with gastric cancer with open-type atrophy (OR, 12.7; 95% confidence interval, 3.2-49.8). The rapidly changing methylation of Alu-adjacent genes was barely increased in the antrum of patients with gastric cancer. Among diverse methylation changes associated with H. pylori infection, an increase in slowly changing methylation could serve as a cancer-risk marker.
Core Binding Factor β (CBFβ) is complexed with the RUNX family of transcription factors in the nucleus to support activation or repression of genes related to bone (RUNX2), hematopoiesis (RUNX1) and gastrointestinal (RUNX3) development. Furthermore, RUNX proteins contribute to the onset and progression of different types of cancer. Although CBFβ localizes to cytoskeletal architecture, its biological role in the cytoplasmic compartment remains to be established. Additionally, the function and localization of CBFβ during the cell cycle are important questions relevant to its biological role. Here we show that CBFβ dynamically distributes in different stages of cell division and importantly is present during telophase at the midbody, a temporal structure important for successful cytokinesis. A functional role for CBFβ localization at the midbody is supported by striking defects in cytokinesis that include polyploidy and abscission failure following siRNA-mediated downregulation of endogenous CBFβ or overexpression of the inv(16) fusion protein CBFβ-SMMHC. Our results suggest that CBFβ retention in the midbody during cytokinesis reflects a novel function that contributes to epigenetic control.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a tumor suppressor gene whose reduced expression may play an important role in the development and progression of esophageal squamous cell cancer (ESCC). The aim of this study was to investigate the clinical relevance of RUNX3 in ESCC patients and effects of overexpression on biological behaviour of Eca109 cells in vitro and in vivo. Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the clinical relevance of RUNX3 and lymph node metastasis in 80 ESCC tissues and 40 non-cancerous tissues using the SP method. RT-PCR and Western blotting were applied to assess the RUNX3 level and verify the Eca109 cell line with stable overexpression. Localization of RUNX3 proteins was performed by cell immunofluorescence. CCK-8 and Scrape motility assays were used to determine proliferation and migration and the TUNEL assay to analyze cell apoptosis. Invasive potential was assessed in cell transwell invasion experiments. In nude mice, tumorigenesis in vivo was determined. Results showed decreased expression of RUNX3 in esophageal tissue to be significantly related to lymph node metastasis (LNM) (P<0.01). In addition, construction of a recombinant lentiviral vector and transfection into the human ESCC cell line Eca109 demonstrated that overexpression could inhibit cell proliferation, migration and invasion, and induce apoptosis. The in vivo experiments in mice showed tumorigenicity and invasiveness to be significantly reduced. Taken together, our studies indicate that underexpression of RUNX3 in human ESCC tissue is significantly correlated with progression. Restoration of RUNX3 expression significantly inhibits ESCC cells proliferation, migration, invasion and tumorigenesis.
Transcription factor RUNX3 is associated with gastric tumorigenesis and progression through regulating the expression of its target genes. Survivin is a member of the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP) family and has been shown to inhibit cell apoptosis and promote cell proliferation. Increased survivin expression has been found in various cancer types, including gastric cancer. In this study, we found that restoration of RUNX3 promotes cell apoptosis through inhibiting the survivin expression, while RUNX3 inhibition increases the expression of survivin in gastric cancer cell lines. Moreover, RUNX3 over-expression inhibits,whereas its inhibition increases, the promoter activity of survivin gene, respectively. RUNX3-R122C, a mutation located in the conserved Runt domain, has no effect on the promoter activity of survivin gene. We further identified a RUNX3-binding site in the promoter of survivin gene and the binding of RUNX3 on survivin promoter leads to significantly inhibition of survivin expression. Finally, we confirmed the negative correlation of RUNX3 and survivin expression in clinical specimens of gastric cancer. These findings reveal a novel mechanism of RUNX3 for the induction of cell apoptosis in human gastric cancer.
The aim of this study is to investigate the possible roles of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) and β-catenin in the carcinogenesis of sporadic colorectal tubular adenomas. The expression of the RUNX3 and β-catenin proteins was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 23 normal colorectal mucosa (NCM), 81 sporadic colorectal tubular adenomas with different dysplasias (SCTA-D) (mild n=33, moderate n=23, and severe n=25 dysplasia), and 48 sporadic colorectal tubular adenomas with cancerous changes (SCTA-Ca). RUNX3 methylation was assessed by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP), combined with laser capture microdissection (LCM), in 17 NCM, 41 SCTA-D (mild n=15, moderate n=12, and severe n=14 dysplasia), and 17 SCTA-Ca tissues. Compared to NCM (82.6 %), RUNX3 in SCTA-D (54.3 %) and SCTA-Ca (27.1 %) was significantly downregulated (P<0.05). In NCM, SCTA-D, and SCTA-Ca, the incidence of positive expression for β-catenin was 13.0, 60.5, and 79.2 %, respectively. A statistically significant difference was observed (P<0.05). RUNX3 levels were markedly higher in adenoma with mild dysplasia (75.8 %) and moderate dysplasia (60.9 %) than in adenoma with severe dysplasia (20.0 %) (both with P<0.05). Likewise, the expression of β-catenin in severe dysplasia adenoma was 84.0 %, which was significantly higher than that in mild dysplasia adenoma (39.4 %). An inverse correlation was found between the protein expression of RUNX3 and β-catenin in SCTA-D and SCTA-Ca (P<0.05). MSP results showed that RUNX3 methylation in NCM, SCTA-D, and SCTA-Ca was 5.9, 17.1, and 41.2 %, respectively, with a statistically significant difference between NCM and SCTA-Ca (P<0.05). However, no significant difference of RUNX3 methylation was observed among different dysplasia groups. RUNX3 and β-catenin play important roles in the carcinogenesis of sporadic colorectal tubular adenomas. In addition, hypermethylation of RUNX3 can downregulate its expression.
DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) represents a frequent and early epigenetic event with potential applications for cancer detection and disease evolution. Our aim was to examine the stratification and prognostic biomarker role of the methylation of a novel panel of TSGs in bladder cancer. The methylation status of 18 TSGs was evaluated in bladder cancer cells (n=14) and paraffin-embedded primary bladder tumors (n=61), using a methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification assay (MS-MLPA). Recurrence, progression, and disease-specific survival were analyzed using univariate and multivariate Cox models. PRDM2, HLTF, ID4, DLC1, BNIP3, H2AFX, CACNA1G, TGIF, and CACNA1A were discovered methylated in bladder cancer. The methylation of RUNX3 (p=0.026), TWIST1 (p=0.009), SFRP4 (p=0.002), and CCND2 (p=0.027) correlated to tumor stage. Univariate analyses indicated prognostic associations for recurrence (DLC1, SFRP5, H2AFX, CACNA1G), progression (DLC1, SFRP5, CACNA1G), disease-specific (PRDM2, DLC1, SFRP5, CACNA1G, and TIMP3), and overall survival (SFRP5 and TIMP3). In multivariate analyses, several TSGs remained as independent prognosticators for recurrence (SFRP5, H2AFX), progression (CACNA1G), and disease-specific survival (SFRP5). Thus, a novel set of TSGs was identified, frequently methylated in bladder cancer cells and tumors. TSG methylation allowed histopathologic and outcome stratification using paraffin-embedded tumors. This is clinically relevant by offering a strategy for the management of patients affected with uroepithelial neoplasias in pathology routine laboratories.
The present study investigated the effects of 5-azacytidine (5-azaC) on the expression level of the human runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene and the biological behavior of esophageal carcinoma Eca109 cells. The effect of the demethylation reagent 5-azaC on the viability of Eca109 cells was detected by the MTT assay, which demonstrated that 5-azaC inhibited the viability of Eca109 cells in a time- and dose-dependent manner. Although demethylation of other genes may occur following treatment with 5-azaC, we focused on the RUNX3 gene. When treated with 5-azaC at hypoxic levels, the expression of RUNX3 increased and the methylation degree of the RUNX3 gene was decreased significantly in Eca109 cells. 5-azaC at 50 µM demonstrated the highest RUNX3-induction activity, inducing RUNX3 mRNA and protein expression, and decreasing the degree of methylation of the RUNX3 gene. Methylation speciﬁc PCR indicated that 5-azaC induced RUNX3 expression through demethylation. The abilities of migration and invasion of Eca109 cells were inhibited by 5-azaC. The growth of Eca109 cells treated with 5-azaC in vivo was detected by a tumorigenesis experiment. 5-azaC inhibited the growth of Eca109 xenografts in nude mice. Taken together, our findings demonstrated that the RUNX3 gene is hypermethylated in Eca109 cells and that 5-azaC induces the expression of the RUNX3 gene by demethylation, which inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of Eca109 cells.
Runx3 is essential for normal vertebrate lung development and Runx3 knockout (KO) mice die within 24 h after birth because of various organ defects including defects in alveolar expansion. For proper early lung development, vasculogenesis and angiogenesis are necessary in humans. Previous studies have reported that various signaling molecules, such as CD31, VEGF and vWF, are closely related to lung vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. To confirm the relationship between Runx3-related lung defects and vasculogenesis, the localization of various blood vessel markers is examined in WT and Runx3 KO mouse lungs at PN1. Our results indicate that CD31, VEGF and vWF were dramatically up-regulated by a loss of Runx3 during lung development. Moreover, U0126, a MEK inhibitor, rescued the lung phenotype and vascularization by regulation of ERK signaling. Therefore, it was concluded that lung vasculogenesis and angiogenesis were induced in the Runx3 KO mouse, which shows lung defects, by increased CD31, VEGF and vWF.
T helper 17 (Th17) cells can give rise to interleukin-17A (IL-17A)- and interferon (IFN)-γ-double-producing cells that are implicated in development of autoimmune diseases. However, the molecular mechanisms that govern generation of IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells are unclear. We found that coexpression of the Th1 and Th17 cell master transcription factors, T-bet and retinoid-related orphan receptor gamma-t (RORγt), respectively, did not generate Th cells with robust IL-17 and IFN-γ expression. Instead, development of IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells required T-bet and Runx1 or Runx3. IL-12-stimulated Th17 cells upregulated Runx1, which bound to the Ifng locus in a T-bet-dependent manner. Reciprocally, T-bet or Runx1 deficiency or inhibition of Runx transcriptional activity impaired the development of IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, which correlated with substantially ameliorated disease course. Thus, our studies identify a critical role for T-bet and Runx transcription factors in the generation of pathogenic IFN-γ-producing Th17 cells.
Langerhans cells (LCs) are the unique antigen-presenting cell of the epidermis. LCs have long been depicted in textbooks as the archetypical dendritic cell that alerts the immune system upon pathogen induced skin barrier breakage, however recent findings argue instead for a more tolerogenic function. While the LCs that populate the epidermis in steady-state arise from progenitors that seed the skin during embryogenesis, it is now apparent that a second pathway generating LCs from a bone marrow derived progenitor is active in inflammatory settings. This review emphasizes the determinants underpinning the establishment of the LC network in steady-state and under inflammatory conditions, as well as the transcriptional machinery governing their differentiation. The dual origin of LCs raises important questions about the functional differences between these subsets in balancing the epidermal immune response between immunity and tolerance.
RUNX3 (runt-related transcription factor-3) has been reported to suppress tumor tumorigenesis and metastasis in different human cancers. In this study, we used tissue microarray (TMA) to determine the significance of RUNX3 in prostate cancer progession. Our results showed ectopic expression of RUNX3 in prostate cancer tissues when compared with tumor adjacent normal prostate tissues, and reduced RUNX3 staining was significantly correlated with TNM stage. Moreover, we demonstrated that RUNX3 overexpression inhibited prostate cancer cell migration and invasion resulting from the elevated upregulation of tissue inhibitor of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (TIMP-2), which subsequently inhibited metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) expression and activity in vitro. Knock down of RUNX3 expression broke up the balance of TIMP-2/MMP-2, whereas silence of TIMP-2 resulted in the inhibition of MMP-2 expression in prostate cells. We also showed that restoration of RUNX3 decreased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) secretion and suppressed endothelial cell growth and tube formation. Strikingly, RUNX3 was demonstrated to inhibit tumor metastasis and angiogenesis in vivo. Altogether, our results support the tumor suppressive role of RUNX3 in human prostate cancer, and provide insights into development of targeted therapy for this disease.
BACKGROUND: In colorectal cancer a distinct subgroup of tumours demonstrate the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP). However, a consensus of how to score CIMP is not reached, and variation in definition may influence the reported CIMP prevalence in tumours. Thus, we sought to compare currently suggested definitions and cut-offs for methylation markers and how they influence CIMP classification in colon cancer.METHODS: Methylation-specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MS-MLPA), with subsequent fragment analysis, was used to investigate methylation of tumour samples. In total, 31 CpG sites, located in 8 different genes (RUNX3, MLH1, NEUROG1, CDKN2A, IGF2, CRABP1, SOCS1 and CACNA1G) were investigated in 64 distinct colon cancers and 2 colon cancer cell lines. The Ogino gene panel includes all 8 genes, in addition to the Weisenberger panel of which only 5 of the 8 genes included were investigated. In total, 18 alternative combinations of scoring of CIMP positivity on probe-, gene-, and panel-level were analysed and compared.RESULTS: For 47 samples (71%), the CIMP status was constant and independent of criteria used for scoring; 34 samples were constantly scored as CIMP negative, and 13 (20%) consistently scored as CIMP positive. Only four of 31 probes (13%) investigated showed no difference in the numbers of positive samples using the different cut-offs. Within the panels a trend was observed that increasing the gene-level stringency resulted in a larger difference in CIMP positive samples than increasing the probe-level stringency. A significant difference between positive samples using 'the most stringent' as compared to 'the least stringent' criteria (20% vs 46%, respectively; p<0.005) was demonstrated.CONCLUSIONS: A statistical significant variation in the frequency of CIMP depending on the cut-offs and genes included in a panel was found, with twice as many positives samples by least compared to most stringent definition used.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a putative tumour suppressor via regulating the expression of a series of target genes. Clinical studies demonstrated that loss of RUNX3 expression is associated with gastric cancer progression and poor prognosis, but the underlying mechanism is not entirely clear. Accumulating evidence shows that the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) plays an important role in cancer relapse and metastasis. Therefore, we addressed whether RUNX3 has a role in the EMT in gastric cancer. Knockdown of RUNX3 promoted cell invasion and increased the protein expression of the mesenchymal marker vimentin in human gastric cancer cells. Overexpression of RUNX3 suppressed cell invasion and decreased the protein expression of vimentin in the cells and inhibited gastric cancer cells colonization in nude mice. Furthermore, overexpression of RUNX3 increased the expression of microRNA-30a (miR-30a), and miR-30a directly targeted the 3' untranslated region of vimentin and decreased its protein level. miR-30a inhibitor abrogated RUNX3-mediated inhibition of cell invasion and downregulation of vimentin. Thus, RUNX3 suppressed gastric cancer cell invasion and vimentin expression by activating miR-30a. In gastric cancer patients, levels of RUNX3 were positively correlated with miR-30a and negatively associated with the levels of vimentin. Collectively, our data suggest a novel molecular mechanism for the tumour suppressor activity of RUNX3. Effective therapy targeting the RUNX3 pathway may help control gastric cancer cell invasion and metastasis by inhibiting the EMT.
RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor for a variety of cancers. RUNX3 suppresses the canonical Wnt signaling pathway by binding to the TCF4/β-catenin complex, resulting in the inhibition of binding of the complex to the Wnt target gene promoter. Here, we confirmed that RUNX3 suppressed Wnt signaling activity in several gastric cancer cell lines; however, we found that RUNX3 increased the Wnt signaling activity in KatoIII and SNU668 gastric cancer cells. Notably, RUNX3 expression increased the ratio of the Wnt signaling-high population in the KatoIII cells. although the maximum Wnt activation level of individual cells was similar to that in the control. As found previously, RUNX3 also binds to TCF4 and β-catenin in KatoIII cells, suggesting that these molecules form a ternary complex. Moreover, the ChIP analyses revealed that TCF4, β-catenin and RUNX3 bind the promoter region of the Wnt target genes, Axin2 and c-Myc, and the occupancy of TCF4 and β-catenin in these promoter regions is increased by the RUNX3 expression. These results suggest that RUNX3 stabilizes the TCF4/β-catenin complex on the Wnt target gene promoter in KatoIII cells, leading to activation of Wnt signaling. Although RUNX3 increased the Wnt signaling activity, its expression resulted in suppression of tumorigenesis of KatoIII cells, indicating that RUNX3 plays a tumor-suppressing role in KatoIII cells through a Wnt-independent mechanism. These results indicate that RUNX3 can either suppress or activate the Wnt signaling pathway through its binding to the TCF4/β-catenin complex by cell context-dependent mechanisms.
Natural killer cells belong to the family of innate lymphoid cells comprising the frontline defense against infected and transformed cells. Development and activation of natural killer cells is highly dependent on interleukin-15 signaling. However, very little is known about the transcription program driving this process. The transcription factor Runx3 is highly expressed in natural killer cells, but its function in these cells is largely unknown. We show that loss of Runx3 impaired interleukin-15-dependent accumulation of mature natural killer cells in vivo and under culture conditions and pregnant Runx3(-/-) mice completely lack the unique population of interleukin-15-dependent uterine natural killer cells. Combined chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and differential gene expression analysis of wild-type versus Runx3-deficient in vivo activated splenic natural killer cells revealed that Runx3 cooperates with ETS and T-box transcription factors to drive the interleukin-15-mediated transcription program during activation of these cells. Runx3 functions as a nuclear regulator during interleukin-15-dependent activation of natural killer cells by regulating the expression of genes involved in proliferation, maturation, and migration. Similar studies with additional transcription factors will allow the construction of a more detailed transcriptional network that controls natural killer cell development and function.
Differentiation-dependent regulation of the Ifng cytokine gene locus in T helper (Th) cells has emerged as an excellent model for functional study of distal elements that control lineage-specific gene expression. We previously identified a cis-regulatory element located 22 kb upstream of the Ifng gene (Conserved Non-coding Sequence -22, or CNS-22) that is a site for recruitment of the transcription factors T-bet, Runx3, NF-κB and STAT4, which act to regulate transcription of the Ifng gene in Th1 cells. Here, we report the generation of mice with a conditional deletion of CNS-22 that has enabled us to define the epigenetic and functional consequences of its absence. Deletion of CNS-22 led to a defect in induction of Ifng by the cytokines IL-12 and IL-18, with a more modest effect on induction via T-cell receptor activation. To better understand how CNS-22 and other Ifng CNSs regulated Ifng transcription in response to these distinct stimuli, we examined activation-dependent changes in epigenetic modifications across the extended Ifng locus in CNS-22-deficient T cells. We demonstrate that in response to both cytokine and TCR driven activation signals, CNS-22 and other Ifng CNSs recruit increased activity of histone acetyl transferases (HATs) that transiently enhance levels of histones H3 and H4 acetylation across the extended Ifng locus. We also demonstrate that activation-responsive increases in histone acetylation levels are directly linked to the ability of Ifng CNSs to acutely enhance Pol II recruitment to the Ifng promoter. Finally, we show that impairment in IL-12+IL-18 dependent induction of Ifng stems from the importance of CNS-22 in coordinating locus-wide levels of histone acetylation in response to these cytokines. These findings identify a role for acute histone acetylation in the enhancer function of distal conserved cis-elements that regulate of Ifng gene expression.
BACKGROUND: Methylation-mediated inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes is a critical event during the pathogenesis of many malignancies. Vincristine is a conventional anticancer drug used to treat various types of cancers. However, few studies describe the epigenetic-based effects of vincristine. In this study, changes in the methylation of runt-related transcription factor-3 (RUNX3) were investigated in CCD18Co normal colon cells and DLD-1 colorectal adenocarcinoma cells.MATERIALS AND METHODS: CCD18Co and DLD-1 cells were treated with vincristine, and the methylation status was assessed using quantitative methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (QMSP). Eleven normal colon tissues and 105 colorectal cancer tissues were investigated by methylation and mRNA expression of RUNX3 using QMSP and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real time-PCR).RESULTS: RUNX3 was demethylated after vincristine treatment in DLD-1 cells. The expression of RUNX3 mRNA was down-regulated in DLD-1 cells because of DNA hypermethylation, but was restored after vincristine treatment. In addition, hypermethylation of RUNX3 was detected in 70 out of 105 colorectal carcinomas (66.7%). RUNX3 hypermethylation was greater in colon cancer tissues than in rectal cancer tissues. The expression of RUNX3 mRNA was reduced in 68 out of 105 colorectal cancer tissues (64.8%).CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that vincristine demethylates RUNX3 in colorectal adenocarcinoma cells, and restores its expression.
BACKGROUND: DNA hypermethylation is reported as a frequent event and prognostic marker in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC). Methylation has been commonly assessed with non-quantitative methodologies, such as methylation-specific PCR (MSP). We investigated previously reported hypermethylated genes with quantitative methodology in oral tongue squamous cell carcinomas (OTSCC).RESULTS: The methylation status of 12 genes in 115 OTSCC samples was assessed by one or more of three quantitative analyses: methylation sensitive high resolution melting (MS-HRM), sensitive-melting analysis after real time-methylation specific PCR (SMART-MSP), and bisulfite pyrosequencing. In contrast to much of the literature, either no or infrequent locus-specific methylation was identified by MS-HRM for DAPK1, RASSF1A, MGMT, MLH1, APC, CDH1, CDH13, BRCA1, ERCC1, and ATM. The most frequently methylated loci were RUNX3 (18/108 methylated) and ABO (22/107 methylated). Interrogation of the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) HNSCC cohort confirmed the frequency of significant methylation for the loci investigated. Heterogeneous methylation of RUNX3 (18/108) and ABO (22/107) detected by MS-HRM, conferred significantly worse survival (P = 0.01, and P = 0.03). However, following quantification of methylation levels using pyrosequencing, only four tumors had significant quantities (>15%) of RUNX3 methylation which correlated with a worse patient outcome (P <0.001), while the prognostic significance of ABO hypermethylation was lost. RUNX3 methylation was not prognostic for the TCGA cohort (P = 0.76).CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated the critical need for quantification of methylation levels and its impact on correlative analyses. In OTSCC, we found little evidence of significant or frequent hypermethylation of many loci reported to be commonly methylated. It is likely that previous reports have overestimated the frequency of significant methylation events as a consequence of the use of non-quantitative methodology.
Expression and stability of the tumor suppressor runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) are regulated by histone deacetylase (HDAC). HDAC inhibition alters epigenetic and posttranslational stability of RUNX3, leading to tumor suppression. However, HDAC inhibitors can nonselectively alter global gene expression through chromatin remodeling. Thus, lactam-based HDAC inhibitors were screened to identify potent protein stabilizers that maintain RUNX3 stability by acetylation. RUNX activity and HDAC inhibition were determined for 111 lactam-based analogues through a cell-based RUNX activation and HDAC inhibition assay. 3-[1-(4-Bromobenzyl)-2-oxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-3-yl]-N-hydroxypropanamide (11-8) significantly increased RUNX3 acetylation and stability with relatively low RUNX3 mRNA expression and HDAC inhibitory activity. This compound showed significant antitumor effects, which were stronger than SAHA, in an MKN28 xenograft model. Thus, we propose a novel strategy, in which HDAC inhibitors serve as antitumor chemotherapeutic agents that selectively target epigenetic regulation and protein stability of RUNX3.
Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 3C (EBNA3C) repression of CDKN2A p14(ARF) and p16(INK4A) is essential for immortal human B-lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL) growth. EBNA3C ChIP-sequencing identified >13,000 EBNA3C sites in LCL DNA. Most EBNA3C sites were associated with active transcription; 64% were strong H3K4me1- and H3K27ac-marked enhancers and 16% were active promoters marked by H3K4me3 and H3K9ac. Using ENCODE LCL transcription factor ChIP-sequencing data, EBNA3C sites coincided (±250 bp) with RUNX3 (64%), BATF (55%), ATF2 (51%), IRF4 (41%), MEF2A (35%), PAX5 (34%), SPI1 (29%), BCL11a (28%), SP1 (26%), TCF12 (23%), NF-κB (23%), POU2F2 (23%), and RBPJ (16%). EBNA3C sites separated into five distinct clusters: (i) Sin3A, (ii) EBNA2/RBPJ, (iii) SPI1, and (iv) strong or (v) weak BATF/IRF4. EBNA3C signals were positively affected by RUNX3, BATF/IRF4 (AICE) and SPI1/IRF4 (EICE) cooccupancy. Gene set enrichment analyses correlated EBNA3C/Sin3A promoter sites with transcription down-regulation (P < 1.6 × 10(-4)). EBNA3C signals were strongest at BATF/IRF4 and SPI1/IRF4 composite sites. EBNA3C bound strongly to the p14(ARF) promoter through SPI1/IRF4/BATF/RUNX3, establishing RBPJ-, Sin3A-, and REST-mediated repression. EBNA3C immune precipitated with Sin3A and conditional EBNA3C inactivation significantly decreased Sin3A binding at the p14(ARF) promoter (P < 0.05). These data support a model in which EBNA3C binds strongly to BATF/IRF4/SPI1/RUNX3 sites to enhance transcription and recruits RBPJ/Sin3A- and REST/NRSF-repressive complexes to repress p14(ARF) and p16(INK4A) expression.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: This study was performed to determine the association between RUNX3 expression and Helicobacter pylori infection in premalignant gastric lesions.METHODS: We examined 107 patients with gastric epithelial dysplasia who had undergone endoscopic mucosal resection or submucosal dissection. All tissue samples were evaluated by RUNX3 staining and subclassified by immunophenotype. H. pylori infection in dysplastic lesions and the normal surrounding tissue was examined by silver staining, and cagA status was assessed by polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: The loss of RUNX3 expression was observed in 62 cases (57.9%), and an association with H. pylori infection was found in 54 cases (50.5%). The infection rate with the cagA-positive H. pylori strain was 63.0%. In RUNX3-negative lesions, the rate of H. pylori infection (p=0.03) and the frequency of category 4 lesions (according to the revised Vienna classification) were high (p=0.02). In addition, the gastric mucin phenotype was predominant. In RUNX3-negative category 4 lesions, the rate of cagA-positive H. pylori infection rate was high but not significantly increased (p=0.08).CONCLUSIONS: Infection with H. pylori is associated with inactivation of RUNX3 in early gastric carcinogenesis. This mechanism was prominent in gastric cancer with a gastric mucin phenotype.
Comment in    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Aug;106(8). pii: dju188. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju188.    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Aug;106(8). pii: dju190. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju190.
The Notch signaling pathway has been recognized as a key factor for the pathogenesis of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), because of the high incidence of activating mutations of Notch1. Notch inhibition could serve as a new treatment strategy for T-ALL; however, the attempts to perturb Notch signaling pathways have been unsuccessful so far. In this study, we found that proteasome inhibitors exert cytotoxic effects on T-ALL cells with constitutive activation of Notch1 to a similar extent as myeloma cells. The proteasome inhibitor bortezomib repressed the transcription of Notch1 and downstream effectors including Hes1, GATA3, RUNX3 and nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) (p65 and p50), coincided with downregulation of the major transactivator Sp1 and its dissociation from Notch1 promoter. Overexpression of the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD) significantly ameliorated bortezomib-induced cytotoxicity against T-ALL cells. Drug combination studies revealed that bortezomib showed synergistic or additive effects with key drugs for the treatment of T-ALL such as dexamethasone (DEX), doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, which were readily abolished by NICD overexpression. The synergy of bortezomib and DEX was confirmed in vivo using a murine xenograft model. Our findings provide a molecular basis and rationale for the inclusion of proteasome inhibitors in treatment strategies for T-ALL.
AIMS: The developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis states that later-life disease may be influenced by the quality of the in utero environment. Environmental toxicants can have detrimental effects on fetal development, potentially through effects on placental development and function. Maternal smoking during pregnancy is associated with low birth weight, preterm birth and other complications, and exposure to cigarette smoke in utero has been linked to gross pathologic and molecular changes to the placenta, including differential DNA methylation in placental tissue. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between maternal smoking during pregnancy, methylation changes in the placenta and gestational age.MATERIALS & METHODS: We used Illumina(®)'s (CA, USA) Human Methylation27 BeadChip technology platform to investigate the methylation status of 21,551 autosomal, non-SNP-associated CpG loci in DNA extracted from 206 human placentas and examined loci whose variation in methylation was associated with maternal smoking during pregnancy.RESULTS: We found that methylation patterns of a number of loci within the RUNX3 gene were significantly associated with smoking during pregnancy, and one of these loci was associated with decreased gestational age (p = 0.04).CONCLUSION: Our findings, demonstrating maternal smoking-induced changes in DNA methylation at specific loci, suggest a mechanism by which in utero tobacco smoke exposure could exert its detrimental effects upon the health of the fetus.
Author information:(1)Direct MD Class (8-year Program), Grade 2007, First Clinical Medical College, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, China.E-mail: 837949436@qq.com.
INTRODUCTION: Peanut sensitization is the most significant food allergen associated with life-threatening allergic reactions. Unlike many food sensitivities, peanut allergy often persists into adulthood. Presently, the only effective therapy is peanut avoidance. Effective preventative therapy requires an understanding of the pathways that lead to anaphylaxis. IgE and mast cell activation are essential contributors. The responsible pathways upstream are driven by pro-allergic T helper 2 differentiation and release of cytokines including interleukin-4 (IL-4) and IL-13.AREAS COVERED: The research utilized an experimental model of peanut-induced anaphylaxis in mice that mimics many of the responses seen in the human disease. Following peanut sensitization and challenge, clinical responses, intestinal inflammatory and immune cell interactions, and genetic and molecular events were monitored. For the first time, evidence for Pim1 kinase involvement was demonstrated in association with the downregulation of Runx3, a known silencer of the IL-4 gene locus. Evidence for Pim1 kinase involvement was shown through the use of a small molecule inhibitor of Pim1 kinase.EXPERT OPINION: Activation of Pim1 kinase and downregulation of Runx3 were essential to the development of peanut-induced intestinal anaphylaxis. Targeting of this Pim1 kinase-Runx3 axis may provide new therapeutic options in the prevention of life-threatening reactions to peanut.
Sporadic colorectal cancer (CRC) is a consequence of the accumulation of genetic and epigenetic alterations that result in the transformation of normal colonic epithelial cells to adenocarcinomas. Studies have indicated that a common event in the tumorigenesis of CRC is the association of global hypomethylation with discrete hypermethylation at the promoter regions of specific genes that are involved in cell cycle regulation, DNA repair, apoptosis, angiogenesis, adhesion and invasion. The present study aimed to investigate the epigenetic changes (DNA methylation) in 24 candidate genes in CRC. A total of 10 candidate hypermethylated (HM) and unmethylated (UM) genes were identified that may be useful epigenetic markers for non-invasive CRC screening. The five genes that had the highest average UM percentages in the control group were MLH1 (71.7%), DKK2 (69.6%), CDKN2A (68.4%), APC (67.5%) and hsa-mir-342 (67.4%). RUNX3 (58.9%), PCDH10 (55.5%), SFRP5 (52.1%), IGF2 (50.4%) and Hnf1b (50.0%) were the five genes with the highest average HM percentages in the test group. In summary, the present preliminary study identified the methylation profiles of normal and cancerous colonic epithelial tissues, and provided the groundwork for future large-scale methylation studies.
Langerhans cells (LCs) are the unique dendritic cells found in the epidermis. While a great deal of attention has focused on defining the developmental origins of LCs, reports addressing the transcriptional network ruling their differentiation remain sparse. We addressed the function of a group of key DC transcription factors-PU.1, ID2, IRF4, and IRF8-in the establishment of the LC network. We show that although steady-state LC homeostasis depends on PU.1 and ID2, the latter is dispensable for bone marrow-derived LCs. PU.1 controls LC differentiation by regulating the expression of the critical TGF-β responsive transcription factor RUNX3. PU.1 directly binds to the Runx3 regulatory elements in a TGF-β-dependent manner, whereas ectopic expression of RUNX3 rescued LC differentiation in the absence of PU.1 and promoted LC differentiation from PU.1-sufficient progenitors. These findings highlight the dual molecular network underlying LC differentiation, and show the central role of PU.1 in these processes.
During thymic development, thymocytes expressing a T cell receptor consisting of an alpha and beta chain (TCRαβ), commit to either the cytotoxic- or T helper-lineage fate. This lineage dichotomy is controlled by key transcription factors, including the T helper (Th) lineage master regulator, the Th-inducing BTB/POZ domain-containing Kruppel-like zinc-finger transcription factor, ThPOK, (formally cKrox or Zfp67; encoded by Zbtb7b), which suppresses the cytolytic program in major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II-restricted CD4(+) thymocytes and the Runt related transcription factor 3 (Runx3), which counteracts ThPOK in MHC class I restricted precursor cells and promotes the lineage commitment of CD8αβ(+) cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL). ThPOK continues to repress the CTL gene program in mature CD4(+) T cells, even as they differentiate into effector Th cell subsets. The Th cell fate however is not fixed and two recent studies showed that mature, antigen-stimulated CD4(+) T cells have the flexibility to terminate the expression of ThPOK and functionally reprogram to cytotoxic effector cells. This unexpected plasticity of CD4(+) T cells results in the post-thymic termination of the Th lineage fate and the functional differentiation of distinct MHC class II-restricted CD4(+) CTL. The recognition of CD4 CTL as a defined separate subset of effector cells and the identification of the mechanisms and factors that drive their reprogramming finally create new opportunities to explore the physiological relevance of these effector cells in vivo and to determine their pivotal roles in both, protective immunity as well as in immune-related pathology.
Eomesodermin (Eomes), a T-box transcription factor, is a key molecule associated with function and differentiation of CD8(+) T cells and NK cells. Previously, two teleost Eomes genes (Eomes-a and -b), which are located on different chromosomes, were identified and shown to be expressed in zebrafish lymphocytes. For the present study, we identified these genes in rainbow trout and ginbuna crucian carp. Deduced Eomes-a and -b amino acid sequences in both fish species contain a highly conserved T-box DNA binding domain. In RT-PCR, both Eomes transcripts were readily detectable in a variety of tissues in rainbow trout and ginbuna. The high expression of Eomes-a and -b in brain and ovary suggests involvement in neurogenesis and oogenesis, respectively, while their expression in lymphoid tissues presumably is associated with immune functions. Investigation of separated lymphocyte populations from pronephros indicated that both Eomes-a and -b transcripts were few or absent in IgM(+) lymphocytes, while relatively abundant in IgM(-)/CD8α(+) and IgM(-)/CD8α(-) populations. Moreover, we sorted trout CD8α(+) lymphocytes from mucosal and non-mucosal lymphoid tissues and compared the expression profiles of Eomes-a and -b with those of other T cell-related transcription factor genes (GATA-3, T-bet and Runx3), a Th1 cytokine gene (IFN-γ) and a Th2 cytokine gene (IL-4/13A). Interestingly, the tissue distribution of Eomes-a/b, T-bet, and Runx3 versus IFN-γ transcripts did not reveal simple correlations, suggesting tissue-specific properties of CD8α(+) lymphocytes and/or multiple modes that drive IFN-γ expressions.
The transcription factor Runx3 is highly expressed in CD8(+) T and NK cytotoxic lymphocytes and is required for their effective activation and proliferation but molecular insights into the transcription program regulated by Runx3 in these cells are still missing. Using Runx3-ChIP-seq and transcriptome analysis of wild type vs. Runx3(-/-) primary cells we have now identified Runx3-regulated genes in the two cell types at both resting and IL-2-activated states. Runx3-bound genomic regions in both cell types were distantly located relative to gene transcription start sites and were enriched for RUNX and ETS motifs. Bound genomic regions significantly overlapped T-bet and p300-bound enhancer regions in Runx3-expressing Th1 helper cells. Compared to resting cells, IL-2-activated CD8(+) T and NK cells contain three times more Runx3-regulated genes that are common to both cell types. Functional annotation of shared CD8(+) T and NK Runx3-regulated genes revealed enrichment for immune-associated terms including lymphocyte activation, proliferation, cytotoxicity, migration and cytokine production, highlighting the role of Runx3 in CD8(+) T and NK activated cells.
Targeted inactivation of Runx3 in mouse lung induced mucinous and nonmucinous adenomas and markedly shortened latency of adenocarcinoma formation induced by oncogenic K-Ras. RUNX3 was frequently inactivated in K-RAS mutated human lung adenocarcinomas. A functional genetic screen of a fly mutant library and molecular analysis in cultured cell lines revealed that Runx3 forms a complex with BRD2 in a K-Ras-dependent manner in the early phase of the cell cycle; this complex induces expression of p14(ARF)/p19(Arf) and p21(WAF/CIP). When K-Ras was constitutively activated, the Runx3-BRD2 complex was stably maintained and expression of both p14(ARF) and p21(WAF/CIP) was prolonged. These results provide a missing link between oncogenic K-Ras and the p14(ARF)-p53 pathway, and may explain how cells defend against oncogenic K-Ras.
Classical dendritic cells (cDC) are specialized antigen-presenting cells mediating immunity and tolerance. cDC cell-lineage decisions are largely controlled by transcriptional factor regulatory cascades. Using an in vivo cell-specific targeting of Runx3 at various stages of DC lineage development we show that Runx3 is required for cell-identity, homeostasis and function of splenic Esam(hi) DC. Ablation of Runx3 in DC progenitors led to a substantial decrease in splenic CD4(+)/CD11b(+) DC. Combined chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing and gene expression analysis of purified DC-subsets revealed that Runx3 is a key gene expression regulator that facilitates specification and homeostasis of CD11b(+)Esam(hi) DC. Mechanistically, loss of Runx3 alters Esam(hi) DC gene expression to a signature characteristic of WT Esam(low) DC. This transcriptional reprogramming caused a cellular change that diminished phagocytosis and hampered Runx3(-/-) Esam(hi) DC capacity to prime CD4(+) T cells, attesting to the significant role of Runx3 in specifying Esam(hi) DC identity and function.
Cranial cartilage derives mainly from cranial neural crest cells and its formation requires fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) signaling for early differentiation and survival of developing chondrocytes as well as patterning of the endodermal pouches. Here, we investigate the role of Fgf receptors in chondrocyte maturation at later stages, beyond 24 hpf. Using inducible expression of a dominant-negative Fgf receptor, we show that Fgf signaling is required around 30 hpf for correct cartilage formation. The receptor genes fgfr1a and fgr2 are expressed in pharyngeal endodermal pouches after 24 hpf or 26 hpf, respectively. Depletion of any of these two receptors by microinjection of antisense morpholinos results in severe defects in cartilage formation at 4 dpf and a decrease in expression of the late chondrocyte markers barx1 and runx2b. Although endodermal pouches are correctly formed and patterned, receptor knock down leads to decreased expression of runx3, egr1 and sox9b in this tissue, while expression of fsta, coding for a secreted BMP/Tgfß inhibitor, is clearly increased. Rescue experiments revealed that each Fgfr1a or Fgfr2 receptor is able to compensate for the loss of the other. Thus, we show that minimal amounts of Fgfr1a or Fgfr2 are required to initiate a regulatory cascade in pharyngeal endoderm reducing expression of fsta, thereby allowing correct BMP signaling to the maturing chondrocytes of the head cartilage.
5-Azacytidine (5-azaC) was originally identified as an anticancer drug (NSC102876) which can cause hypomethylation of tumor suppressor genes. To assess its effects on runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), expression levels and the promoter methylation status of the RUNX3 gene were assessed. We also investigated alteration of biologic behavior of esophageal carcinoma TE-1 cells. MTT assays showed 5-azaC inhibited the proliferation of TE-1 cells in a time and dose-dependent way. Although other genes could be demethylated after 5-azaC intervention, we focused on RUNX3 gene in this study. The expression level of RUNX3 mRNA increased significantly in TE-1 cells after treatment with 5-azaC at hypotoxic levels. RT-PCR showed 5-azaC at 50 μM had the highest RUNX3-induction activity. Methylation-specific PCR indicated that 5-azaC induced RUNX3 expression through demethylation. Migration and invasion of TE-1 cells were inhibited by 5-azaC, along with growth of Eca109 xenografts in nude mice. In conclusion, we demonstrate that the RUNX3 gene can be reactivated by the demethylation reagent 5-azaC, which inhibits the proliferation, migration and invasion of esophageal carcinoma TE-1 cells.
Familial dysautonomia (FD) is a devastating developmental and progressive peripheral neuropathy caused by a mutation in the gene inhibitor of kappa B kinase complex-associated protein (IKBKAP). To identify the cellular and molecular mechanisms that cause FD, we generated mice in which Ikbkap expression is ablated in the peripheral nervous system and identify the steps in peripheral nervous system development that are Ikbkap-dependent. We show that Ikbkap is not required for trunk neural crest migration or pathfinding, nor for the formation of dorsal root or sympathetic ganglia, or the adrenal medulla. Instead, Ikbkap is essential for the second wave of neurogenesis during which the majority of tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA(+)) nociceptors and thermoreceptors arise. In its absence, approximately half the normal complement of TrkA(+) neurons are lost, which we show is partly due to p53-mediated premature differentiation and death of mitotically-active progenitors that express the paired-box gene Pax3 and give rise to the majority of TrkA(+) neurons. By the end of sensory development, the number of TrkC neurons is significantly increased, which may result from an increase in Runx3(+) cells. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that TrkA(+) (but not TrkC(+)) sensory and sympathetic neurons undergo exacerbated Caspase 3-mediated programmed cell death in the absence of Ikbkap and that this death is not due to a reduction in nerve growth factor synthesis. In summary, these data suggest that FD does not result from a failure in trunk neural crest migration, but rather from a critical function for Ikbkap in TrkA progenitors and TrkA(+) neurons.
T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is characterized as a high-risk stratified disease associated with frequent relapse, chemotherapy resistance, and a poorer prognostic outlook than B-precursor ALL. Many of the challenges in treating T-ALL reflect the lack of prognostic cytogenetic or molecular abnormalities on which to base therapy, including targeted therapy. Notch1 activating mutations were identified in more than 50% of T-ALL cases and can be therapeutically targeted with γ-secretase inhibitors (GSIs). Mutant Notch1 can activate cMyc and PI3K-AKT-mTOR1 signaling in T-ALL. In T-ALLs with wild-type phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome ten (PTEN), Notch1 transcriptionally represses PTEN, an effect reversible by GSIs. Notch1 also promotes growth factor receptor (IGF1R and IL7Rα) signaling to PI3K-AKT. Loss of PTEN is common in primary T-ALLs due to mutation or posttranslational inactivation and results in chronic activation of PI3K-AKT-mTOR1 signaling, GSI-resistance, and repression of p53-mediated apoptosis. Notch1 itself might regulate posttranslational inactivation of PTEN. PP2A is activated by Notch1 in PTEN-null T-ALL cells, and GSIs reduce PP2A activity and increase phosphorylation of AKT, AMPK, and p70S6K. This review focuses on the central role of the PI3K-AKT-mTOR1 signaling in T-ALL, including its regulation by Notch1 and potential therapeutic interventions, with emphasis on GSI-resistant T-ALL.
E protein transcription factors and their natural inhibitors, Id proteins, play critical and complex roles during lymphoid development. In this article, we report that partial maintenance of E protein activity during positive selection results in a change in the cell fate determination of developing iNKT cells, with a block in the development of iNKT1 cells and a parallel increase in the iNKT2 and iNKT17 subsets. Because the expression levels of the transcription factors that drive these alternative functional fates (GATA-3, RORγT, T-bet, and Runx-3) are not altered, our results suggest that E protein activity controls a novel checkpoint that regulates the number of iNKT precursors that choose each fate.
In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-proliferative effects of Compound K, with specific reference to histone modification. Exposure of HT-29 human colon cancer cells to Compound K resulted in time-dependent inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity, mRNA and protein expression. Compound K treatment induced unmethylation of the RUNX3 promoter region such as TSA treatment and an accumulation of acetylated histones H3 and H4 within the total cellular chromatin, resulting in an enhanced ability of these histones to bind to the promoter sequences of the tumor suppressor gene Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3). Treatment of cells with Compound K increased the mRNA and protein expression of RUNX3, as well as p21, a downstream target of RUNX3. These alterations were consistent with cell cycle arrest at the G0/G1 phases and induction of apoptosis. Our results provide new insights into the mechanisms of Compound K action in human colorectal cancer cells and suggest that HDAC inhibition presents a novel approach to prevent or treat colorectal cancer.
MicroRNA-148a (miR-148a) which suppresses tumor growth by directly decreasing DNMT1 expression has been demonstrated as an important role for cancer therapy. The mechanisms for miR-148a in cancer will become potential future researches.
A proper DNA damage response (DDR), which monitors and maintains the genomic integrity, has been considered to be a critical barrier against genetic alterations to prevent tumor initiation and progression. The representative tumor suppressor p53 plays an important role in the regulation of DNA damage response. When cells receive DNA damage, p53 is quickly activated and induces cell cycle arrest and/or apoptotic cell death through transactivating its target genes implicated in the promotion of cell cycle arrest and/or apoptotic cell death such as p21(WAF1) , BAX, and PUMA. Accumulating evidence strongly suggests that DNA damage-mediated activation as well as induction of p53 is regulated by posttranslational modifications and also by protein-protein interaction. Loss of p53 activity confers growth advantage and ensures survival in cancer cells by inhibiting apoptotic response required for tumor suppression. RUNX family, which is composed of RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3, is a sequence-specific transcription factor and is closely involved in a variety of cellular processes including development, differentiation, and/or tumorigenesis. In this review, we describe a background of p53 and a functional collaboration between p53 and RUNX family in response to DNA damage.
PURPOSE: To perform a multilevel radiogenomics study to elucidate the glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging radiogenomic signatures resulting from changes in messenger RNA (mRNA) expression and DNA copy number variation (CNV).MATERIALS AND METHODS: Radiogenomic analysis was performed at MR imaging in 23 patients with GBM in this retrospective institutional review board-approved HIPAA-compliant study. Six MR imaging features-contrast enhancement, necrosis, contrast-to-necrosis ratio, infiltrative versus edematous T2 abnormality, mass effect, and subventricular zone (SVZ) involvement-were independently evaluated and correlated with matched genomic profiles (global mRNA expression and DNA copy number profiles) in a significant manner that also accounted for multiple hypothesis testing by using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), resampling statistics, and analysis of variance to gain further insight into the radiogenomic signatures in patients with GBM.RESULTS: GSEA was used to identify various oncogenic pathways with MR imaging features. Correlations between 34 gene loci were identified that showed concordant variations in gene dose and mRNA expression, resulting in an MR imaging, mRNA, and CNV radiogenomic association map for GBM. A few of the identified gene-to-trait associations include association of the contrast-to-necrosis ratio with KLK3 and RUNX3; association of SVZ involvement with Ras oncogene family members, such as RAP2A, and the metabolic enzyme TYMS; and association of vasogenic edema with the oncogene FOXP1 and PIK3IP1, which is a member of the PI3K signaling network.CONCLUSION: Construction of an MR imaging, mRNA, and CNV radiogenomic association map has led to identification of MR traits that are associated with some known high-grade glioma biomarkers and association with genomic biomarkers that have been identified for other malignancies but not GBM. Thus, the traits and genes identified on this map highlight new candidate radiogenomic biomarkers for further evaluation in future studies.
We recently reported that the tumor suppressor Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is silenced in colorectal cancer cells via oxidative stress-induced hypermethylation of its promoter. The resulting downregulation of RUNX3 expression influences cell proliferation. Activation of the Akt signaling pathway is also associated with cell survival and proliferation; however, the effects of oxidative stress on the relationship between RUNX3 and Akt signaling are largely unknown. Therefore, this study investigated the mechanisms involved in cell proliferation caused by oxidative stress-induced silencing of RUNX3. The levels of RUNX3 mRNA and protein were downregulated in response to treatment of the human colorectal cancer cell line SNU-407 with H2O2. Treatment of the cells with H2O2 also upregulated Akt mRNA and protein expression, and inhibited the binding of RUNX3 to the Akt promoter. The inverse correlation between the expression levels of RUNX3 and Akt in H2O2-treated cells was also associated with nuclear translocation of β-catenin and upregulation of cyclin D1 expression, which induced cell proliferation. H2O2 treatment also increased the binding of β-catenin to the cyclin D1 promoter. The results presented here demonstrate that reactive oxygen species silence the tumor suppressor RUNX3, enhance the Akt-mediated signaling pathway, and promote the proliferation of colorectal cancer cells.
The TGF-β signaling pathway has a significant role in breast cancer initiation and promotion by regulating various cellular processes. We evaluated whether genetic variation in eight genes (TGF-β1, TGF-β2, TGF-βR1, TGF-βR2, TGF-βR3, RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3) is associated with breast cancer risk in women from the Breast Cancer Health Disparities Study. A total of 3,524 cases (1,431 non-Hispanic whites (NHW); 2,093 Hispanics/Native Americans(NA)) and 4,209 population-based controls (1,599 NHWs; 2,610 Hispanics/NAs) were included in analyses. Genotypes for 47 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were determined. Additionally, 104 ancestral informative markers estimated proportion of NA ancestry. Associations with breast cancer risk overall, by menopausal status, NA ancestry, and estrogen receptor (ER)/progesterone receptor tumor phenotype were evaluated. After adjustment for multiple comparisons, two SNPs were significantly associated with breast cancer risk: RUNX3 (rs906296 ORCG/GG = 1.15 95 % CI 1.04-1.26) and TGF-β1 (rs4803455 ORCA/AA = 0.89 95 % CI 0.81-0.98). RUNX3 (rs906296) and TGF-βR2 (rs3773644) were associated with risk in pre-menopausal women (p adj = 0.002 and 0.02, respectively) and in those with intermediate to high NA ancestry (p adj = 0.04 and 0.01, respectively). Self-reported race was strongly correlated with NA ancestry (r = 0.86). There was a significant interaction between NA ancestry and RUNX1 (rs7279383, p adj = 0.04). Four RUNX SNPs were associated with increased risk of ER- tumors. Results provide evidence that genetic variation in TGF-β and RUNX genes are associated with breast cancer risk. This is the first report of significant associations between genetic variants in TGF-β and RUNX genes and breast cancer risk among women of NA ancestry.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the role of RUNX3 in breast cancer pathogenesis, we examined the RUNX3 expression in breast cancer tissues and analyzed the correlation between RUNX3 expression and clinicopathologic variables and patients survival.METHODS: We evaluated the RUNX3 expression by immunohistochemistry using a tissue microarray containing 256 specimens of breast cancer patients. We also studied the role of RUNX3 in cell migration and invasion by performing cell migration and invasion assay. Differential expression of metastasis-related genes after RUNX3 restoration was analyzed using the Human Tumor Metastasis PCR Array.RESULTS: The RUNX3 expression was significantly correlated with breast cancer histology grade (P = 0.000), and low RUNX3 expression strongly correlated with worse 5-year overall and disease-specific survival rates (P = 0.000 and P = 0.001, respectively). Furthermore, we found that RUNX3 restoration suppressed breast cancer metastasis by controlling cell migration and invasion capacity. Finally, gene expression profiles of RUNX3-549 and Ctrl-549 cells showed matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) was the most significant gene among the 84 metastasis-related genes influenced by RUNX3 reintroduction.CONCLUSIONS: Reduced RUNX3 expression is significantly correlated with breast cancer progression and predicts worse survival. RUNX3 regulates breast cancer cell migration and invasion through the MMP-2 pathway.
We examined allelic imbalance (AI) on loci 17p13.1 (TP53), 1p36.1 (RUNX) and 16p22 (CDHI) and microsatellite instability (MI) with BAT26 in 78 patients with gastric cancer. We have shown a significant difference in the frequency of allelic imbalance of the studied loci among different types of gastric cancer. Frequency of AI in 16p22.1 (CDH1) (p = 0.023), 17p13.1 (TP53) (p = 0.038), microsatellite instability (p = 0.047) and AD two and more loci in a single sample (p = 0.0176) was significantly higher in the intestinal type of gastric cancer than in the diffuse type. We have shown, that, frequency of AI in 16p22.1 (CDH1), and AD two and more loci in a single sample, was higher in thetumors with high or moderate type of tumor cells differentiation (p = 0.0414, p = 0.0057 respectively). We found no significant differences in the groups with metastases in regional lymph nodes, different tumor stage, localization of tumors and the generalization process.
Epigenetic changes play significant roles in the development of cancer. UHRF1, as an epigenetic regulator, has been shown to be overexpressed and to coordinate tumor suppressor gene silencing in several cancers. However, the role and underlying mechanism of UHRF1 in gastric cancer (GC) progression remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the expression and function of UHRF1 in GC metastasis and explored its upstream regulatory mechanisms at the microRNA level. UHRF1 was overexpressed in GC tissues, especially in metastatic ones, and a high level of UHRF1 expression predicted poor survival. The down-regulation of UHRF1 suppressed GC invasion and metastasis in vitro and in vivo. We identified and verified miR-146a and miR-146b as direct upstream regulators of UHRF1. Furthermore, the restoration of miR-146a/b dramatically reduced the expression of UHRF1 through the direct targeting of its 3'-UTR, and this effect in turn reactivated the slit homologue 3 (Slit3), cadherin 4 (CDH4), and runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) genes via promoter demethylation. Finally, analyses of miR-146a/b and UHRF1 levels in human GC tissues revealed that miR-146a/b correlated inversely with UHRF1 expression. These findings describe a new mechanism for the regulation of UHRF1 and aberrant DNA hypermethylation in GC. The newly identified miR-146a/b/UHRF1 axis provides insight into the GC metastasis process, and targeting this novel axis represents a therapeutic approach to blocking GC metastasis.
Recent studies have revealed that differentiated epithelial cells would acquire stem cell-like and tumorigenic properties following an Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition (EMT). However, the signaling pathways that participate in this novel mechanism of tumorigenesis have not been fully characterized. In Runx3 (-/-) p53 (-/-) murine gastric epithelial (GIF-14) cells, EMT-induced plasticity is reflected in the expression of the embryonal proto-oncogene Hmga2 and Lgr5, an exclusive gastrointestinal stem cell marker. Here, we report the concurrent activation of an EGFR/Ras gene expression signature during TGF-β1-induced EMT in GIF-14 cells. Amongst the altered genes was the induction of Egfr, which corresponded with a delayed sensitization to EGF treatment in GIF-14. Co-treatment with TGF-β1 and EGF or the expression of exogenous KRas led to increased Hmga2 or Lgr5 expression, sphere initiation and colony formation in soft agar assay. Interestingly, the gain in cellular plasticity/tumorigenicity was not accompanied by increased EMT. This uncoupling of EMT and the induction of plasticity reveals an involvement of distinct signaling cues, whereby the EGFR/Ras pathway specifically promotes stemness and tumorigenicity in EMT-altered GIF-14 cells. These data show that the EGFR/Ras pathway requisite for the sustenance of gastric stem cells in vivo and in vitro is involved in the genesis and promotion of EMT-induced tumor-initiating cells.
BACKGROUND: The Runx family proteins, including RUNX3, are tissue-restricted transcription factors and play role in neuronal development and tumorigenesis. RUNX3 has an important role in glioblastoma (GBM) tumorigenesis because of its promoter hypermethylation.AIM: We aimed to evaluate the methylation-mediated expression regulation of RUNX3 gene in brain tumors.PATIENTS AND METHODS: Cases of meningiomas WHO grade III (3), anaplastic astrocytomas (3), diffuse astrocytoma (3), and GBM (12) were recruited into this study. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed for analyses of DNA promoter methylation and analyses of methylation-mediated expression status of RUNX3 gene was performed by real-time quantitative RT-PCR.RESULTS: There was no significant difference between methylated and unmethylated quantitative ratio of RUNX3 gene promoter region and also no significant difference in relative ratio of RUNX3 gene expression in brain tumor groups. Methylated and unmethylated ratio in anaplastic astrocytoma, diffuse astrocytoma, GBM, meningioma (WHO grade III) and in all groups were; 1.44, 1.09, 1.51, 1.52 and 1.43, respectively. One allele was found methylated necessarily. No methylation was detected in one case of GBM group and one case of anaplastic astrocytoma group. There was no unmethylated promoter in one of the GBM cases. There were significant differences between relative ratio of RUNX3 gene expression and methylated/unmethylated ratio rates for all cases (p = 0.001) and GBM groups (p = 0.041).CONCLUSION: This study overemphasized the RUNX3 gene importance in brain tumors, due to the existence of at least one methylated allele.
Multidrug resistance (MDR) is the main barrier to the success of chemotherapy for gastric cancer (GC). miR-106a, which is highly expressed in GC, influences a variety of aspects of GC. However, the function of miR-106a in MDR of GC still remains unclear. In the present study, we found that miR-106a is elevated in MDR cell lines. miR-106a promotes chemo-resistance of GC cells, accelerates ADR efflux, and suppresses drug-induced apoptosis. Finally, we show that runt-related trans factor 3 (RUNX3) is the functional target of miR-106a. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that miR-106a may promote MDR in GC cells by targeting RUNX3.
Our study focuses on a set of laryngeal tumors that show reduced RUNX3 expression in the absence of transcriptional silencing of tumor suppressor gene RUNX3 by aberrant methylation of CpG islands. We report that the loss of expression of RUNX3 correlates with up-regulation of miR-106b in human laryngeal carcinoma tissue. The downregulation of RUNX3 is mediated by miR-106b through binding of its 3'UTR. Moreover, miR-106b can promote the proliferation and invasion of laryngeal carcinoma cells by directly targeting RUNX3, and RUXN3 knockdown can abolish this phenotype. These results shed a new insight into the mechanism of miRNA regulation in laryngeal carcinoma.
The RUNX3 gene has been shown to function as a tumor suppressor gene implicated in various cancers, but its association with tumor chemoresistance has not been fully understood. Here, we investigated the effect of epigenetic downregulation of RUNX3 in docetaxel resistance of human lung adenocarcinoma and its possible molecular mechanisms. RUNX3 was found to be downregulated by hypermethylation in docetaxel-resistant lung adenocarcinoma cells. Its overexpression could resensitize cells to docetaxel both in vitro and in vivo by growth inhibition, enhancement of apoptosis and G1 phase arrest. Conversely, knockdown of RUNX3 could lead to the decreased sensitivity of parental human lung adenocarcinoma cells to docetaxel by enhancing proliferative capacity. Furthermore, we showed that overexpression of RUNX3 could inactivate the AKT/GSK3β/β-catenin signaling pathway in the docetaxel-resistant cells. Importantly, co-transfection of RUNX3 and constitutively active Akt1 could reverse the effects of RUNX3 overexpression, while treatment with the MK-2206 (AKT inhibitor) mimicked the effects of RUNX3 overexpression in docetaxel-resistant human lung adenocarcinoma cells. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that decreased RUNX3 expression was correlated with high expression of Akt1 and decreased sensitivity of patients to docetaxel-based chemotherapy. Taken together, our results suggest that epigenetic downregulation of RUNX3 can induce docetaxel resistance in human lung adenocarcinoma cells by activating AKT signaling and increasing expression of RUNX3 may represent a promising strategy for reversing docetaxel resistance in the future.
Increased oxidative stress and changes in DNA methylation are frequently detected in bladder cancer patients. We previously demonstrated a relationship between increased oxidative stress and hypomethylation of the transposable long-interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1). Promoter hypermethylation of a tumor suppressor gene, runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), may also be associated with bladder cancer genesis. In this study, we investigated changes of DNA methylation in LINE-1 and RUNX3 promoter in a bladder cancer cell (UM-UC-3) under oxidative stress conditions, stimulated by challenge with H2O2 for 72 h. Cells were pretreated with an antioxidant, tocopheryl acetate for 1 h to attenuate oxidative stress. Methylation levels of LINE-1 and RUNX3 promoter were measured by combined bisulfite restriction analysis PCR and methylation-specific PCR, respectively. Levels of LINE-1 methylation were significantly decreased in H2O2-treated cells, and reestablished after pretreated with tocopheryl acetate. Methylation of RUNX3 promoter was significantly increased in cells exposed to H2O2. In tocopheryl acetate pretreated cells, it was markedly decreased. In conclusion, hypomethylation of LINE-1 and hypermethylation of RUNX3 promoter in bladder cancer cell line was experimentally induced by reactive oxygen species (ROS). The present findings support the hypothesis that oxidative stress promotes urothelial cell carcinogenesis through modulation of DNA methylation. Our data also imply that mechanistic pathways of ROS-induced alteration of DNA methylation in a repetitive DNA element and a gene promoter might differ.
In 1994, Helicobacter pylori was declared a human carcinogen. Evidence has now accumulated to show that at least 95% of gastric cancers are etiologically related to H. pylori. An extensive literature regarding atrophic gastritis and its effects on acid secretion, gastric microflora, and its tight association with gastric cancer has been rediscovered, confirmed, and expanded. Methods to stratify cancer risk based on endoscopic and histologic findings or serologic testing of pepsinogen levels and H. pylori testing have been developed producing practical primary and secondary gastric cancer prevention strategies. H. pylori eradication halts progressive mucosal damage. Cure of the infection in those with non-atrophic gastritis will essentially prevent subsequent development of gastric cancer. For all, the age-related progression in cancer risk is halted and likely reduced as eradication reduces or eliminates mucosal inflammation and reverses or reduces H. pylori-associated molecular events such aberrant activation-induced cytidine deaminase expression, double strand DNA breaks, impaired DNA mismatch repair and aberrant DNA methylation. Those who have developed atrophic gastritis/gastric atrophy however retain some residual risk for gastric cancer which is proportional to the extent and severity of atrophic gastritis. Primary and secondary cancer prevention starts with H. pylori eradication and cancer risk stratification to identify those at higher risk who should also be considered for secondary cancer prevention programs. Japan has embarked on population-wide H. pylori eradication coupled with surveillance targeted to those with significant remaining risk. We anticipate that countries with high gastric cancer burdens will follow their lead. We provide specific recommendations on instituting practical primary and secondary gastric cancer prevention programs as well identifying research needed to make elimination of gastric cancer both efficient and cost effective.
Dysfunction of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) contributes to diabetic vascular disease. MicroRNAs (miRs) have emerged as key regulators of diverse cellular processes including angiogenesis. We recently reported that miR-126, miR-130a, miR-21, miR-27a, and miR-27b were downregulated in EPCs from type II diabetes mellitus (DM) patients, and downregulation of miR-126 impairs EPC function. The present study further explored whether dysregulated miR-130a were also related to EPC dysfunction. EPCs were cultured from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of diabetic patients and healthy controls. Assays on EPC function (proliferation, migration, differentiation, apoptosis, and colony and tubule formation) were performed. Bioinformatics analyses were used to identify the potential targets of miR-130a in EPCs. Gene expression of miR-103a and Runx3 was measured by real-time PCR, and protein expression of Runx3, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and Akt was measured by Western blotting. Runx3 promoter activity was measured by luciferase reporter assay. A miR-130a inhibitor or mimic and lentiviral vectors expressing miR-130a, or Runx3, or a short hairpin RNA targeting Runx3 were transfected into EPCs to manipulate miR-130a and Runx3 levels. MiR-130a was decreased in EPCs from DM patients. Anti-miR-130a inhibited whereas miR-130a overexpression promoted EPC function. miR-130a negatively regulated Runx3 (mRNA, protein and promoter activity) in EPCs. Knockdown of Runx3 expression enhanced EPC function. MiR-130a also upregulated protein expression of ERK/VEGF and Akt in EPCs. In conclusion, miR-130a plays an important role in maintaining normal EPC function, and decreased miR-130a in EPCs from DM contributes to impaired EPC function, likely via its target Runx3 and through ERK/VEGF and Akt pathways.
RUNX3, a runt-related transcription factor, has a crucial role in dorsal root ganglion neurogenesis. Recent studies have suggested that RUNX3 acts as a tumor suppressor in stomach, colon and breast cancer. However, the biological role of RUNX3 in neuroblastoma remains elusive. Here we report that high levels of RUNX3 expression contribute to the favorable outcome in patients with neuroblastoma, whereas low levels of RUNX3 expression result in poor outcome. Array-based analysis suggested that the allelic loss at chromosome 1p36 is one of the reasons why expression of RUNX3 is downregulated in advanced neuroblastomas. Interestingly, the several patients survived from neuroblastoma with both high mRNA expressions of MYCN and RUNX3, suggesting that RUNX3 high expression might overcome the aggressive behavior of MYCN. Exogenous expression of RUNX3 strongly inhibits cell proliferation and migration in neuroblastoma cell lines. Furthermore, RUNX3 reduces the stability of MYCN protein in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma cell lines, and this RUNX3-mediated MYCN degradation may depend on the physical interaction between RUNX3 and MYCN. Thus, our findings provide a tumor-suppressing mechanism by which RUNX3 inhibits the MYCN activity in neuroblastoma.
Thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1), a matricellular protein widely acclaimed to be involved in the inhibition of angiogenesis and tumorigenesis, is synthesized and secreted by many cell types, including osteoblast and cancer cells. TSP-1 is highly upregulated during early stage of osteogenesis, whereas it inhibits terminal osteoblast differentiation. Expression of TSP-1 is downregulated in cancer cells, and its ectopic expression has been shown to restrain tumor growth. Transcriptional regulation of TSP-1 in osteogenesis and cancer is poorly understood; this prompted us to study its regulation by the two key regulators of the aforementioned processes: Runx2 and Runx3. Through a PCR-based cDNA subtraction technique, we identified and cloned a cDNA fragment for mouse TSP-1, whose expression was dramatically upregulated in response to Runx2 expression in mesenchymal stem cells. Moreover, TSP-1 expression was considerably reduced in the lung of Runx2 knockout mouse. On the other hand, TSP-1 gene expression drastically increased at both the transcriptional and translational levels in response to Runx3 expression in B16-F10 melanoma cells. In line with this, Runx2 and Runx3 bound to the TSP-1 promoter and stimulated its activity. Hence, these results provide first line of evidence that TSP-1 is a transcriptional target gene of Runx2 and Runx3.
BACKGROUND AIMS: Epigenetic silencing of tumor suppressor genes by aberrant DNA methylation and histone modifications at their promoter regions plays an important role in the initiation and progression of cancer. The therapeutic effect of the widely used epigenetic drugs, including DNA methyltransferase inhibitors and histone deacetylase inhibitors, remains unsatisfactory. One important underlying factor in the ineffectiveness of these drugs is that their actions lack specificity.METHODS: To investigate whether oocyte extract can be used for epigenetic re-programming of cancer cells, H460 human lung cancer cells were reversibly permeabilized and incubated with bovine oocyte extract.RESULTS: Bisulfite sequencing showed that bovine oocyte extract induced significant demethylation at hypermethylated promoter CpG islands of the tumor suppressor genes RUNX3 and CDH1; however, the DNA methylation levels of repetitive sequences were not affected. Chromatin immunoprecipitation showed that bovine oocyte extract significantly reduced transcriptionally repressive histone modifications and increased transcriptionally activating histone modifications at the promoter regions of RUNX3 and CDH1. Bovine oocyte extract reactivated the expression of RUNX3 and CDH1 at both the messenger RNA and the protein levels without up-regulating the transcription of pluripotency-associated genes. At the functional level, anchorage-independent proliferation, migration and invasion of H460 cells was strongly inhibited.CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that bovine oocyte extract reactivates epigenetically silenced tumor suppressor genes by remodeling the epigenetic modifications at their promoter regions. Bovine oocyte extract may provide a useful tool for investigating epigenetic mechanisms in cancer and a valuable source for developing novel safe therapeutic approaches that target epigenetic alterations.
Loss of RUNX3 expression is frequently observed in gastric cancer and is highly associated with lymph node metastasis and poor prognosis. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of gastric cancer remain unknown. In this study, we found that the protein levels of RUNX3 and osteopontin (OPN) are inversely correlated in gastric cancer clinical specimens and cell lines. Furthermore, similar inverse trends between RUNX3 and OPN messenger RNA (mRNA) expression were demonstrated in six out of seven normal-tumor-paired gastric cancer clinical specimens. In addition, low RUNX3 and high OPN expression were associated with poor prognosis in gastric cancer patients. Ectopic expression of green fluorescent protein-RUNX3 reduced OPN protein and mRNA expression in the AGS and SCM-1 gastric cancer cell lines. In contrast, knockdown of RUNX3 in GES-1, a normal gastric epithelial cell line, increased OPN expression. Although three RUNX3-binding sequences have been identified in the OPN promoter region, direct binding of RUNX3 to the specific binding site, -142 to -137bp, was demonstrated by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. The binding of RUNX3 to the OPN promoter significantly decreased OPN promoter activity. The knockdown of OPN or overexpression of RUNX3 inhibited cell migration in AGS and SCM-1 cells; however, the coexpression of RUNX3 and OPN reversed the RUNX3-reduced migration ability in AGS and SCM-1 cells. In contrast, the knockdown of both RUNX3 and OPN inhibited RUNX3-knockdown-induced migration of GES-1 cells. Together, our data demonstrated that RUNX3 is a transcriptional repressor of OPN and that loss of RUNX3 upregulates OPN, which promotes migration in gastric cancer cells.
The STAT transcription factor STAT4 is a critical regulator of Th1 differentiation and inflammatory disease. Yet, how STAT4 regulates gene expression is still unclear. In this report, we define a STAT4-dependent sequence of events including histone H3 lysine 4 methylation, Jmjd3 association with STAT4 target loci, and a Jmjd3-dependent decrease in histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation and DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt) 3a association with STAT4 target loci. Dnmt3a has an obligate role in repressing Th1 gene expression, and in Th1 cultures deficient in both STAT4 and Dnmt3a, there is recovery in the expression of a subset of Th1 genes that is sufficient to increase IFN-γ production. Moreover, although STAT4-deficient mice are protected from the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, mice deficient in STAT4 and conditionally deficient in Dnmt3a in T cells develop paralysis. Th1 genes that are derepressed in the absence of Dnmt3a have greater induction after the ectopic expression of the Th1-associated transcription factors T-bet and Hlx1. Together, these data demonstrate that STAT4 and Dnmt3a play opposing roles in regulating Th1 gene expression, and that one mechanism for STAT4-dependent gene programming is in establishing a derepressed genetic state susceptible to transactivation by additional fate-determining transcription factors.
The RUNX family genes encode transcription factors that are involved in development and human diseases. RUNX1 is one of the most frequently mutated genes in human hematological malignancies and is a critical factor for the generation and maintenance of hematopoietic stem cells. Another Runx family gene, Runx3, is known to be expressed in hematopoietic cells. However, its involvement in hematopoiesis remains unclear. Here we show the hematopoietic phenotypes in Runx3 conditional knockout (KO) mice (Runx3(fl/fl);Mx1-Cre(+)): whereas young Runx3 KO mice did not exhibit any significant hematopoietic defects, aged Runx3 KO mice developed a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by myeloid-dominant leukocytosis, splenomegaly, and an increase of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs). Notably, Runx3-deficient cells showed hypersensitivity to granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, suggesting enhanced proliferative and mobilization capability of Runx3-deficient HSPCs when stimulated. These results suggest that, besides Runx1, Runx3 also plays a role in hematopoiesis.
Cigarette smoking is the single most important epidemiological risk factor for bladder cancer but it is not known whether exposure of urothelial cells to the systemic soluble contents of cigarette smoke is directly causative to bladder cancer and the associated epigenetic changes such as tumor suppressor gene hypermethylation. We undertook this study to investigate if long-term treatment of human urothelial cells with cigarette smoke extract (CSE) results in tumor suppressor gene hypermethylation, a phenotype that was previously associated with long-term constant CSE treatment of airway epithelial cells. We chronically treated an immortalized human urothelial cell line UROtsa with CSE using a cyclic daily regimen but the cells were cultured in CSE-free medium between daily treatments. Bisulfite sequencing and real-time PCR array-based methylation profiling were employed to evaluate methylation changes at tumor suppressor gene loci in the chronically CSE-treated cells versus the passage-matched untreated control cells. The RUNX3 tumor suppressor gene promoter was hypomethylated with a significant increase in proportion of the completely unmethylated haplotype after the long-term CSE treatment; whereas RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation was previously reported for bladder cancers of smokers. Hypomethylation induced by the long-term CSE treatment was also observed for the IGF2-H19 locus. The methylation status at the PRSS8/prostasin and 16 additional loci however, was unaffected by the chronic CSE treatment. Transient CSE treatment over 1 daily regimen resulted in transcriptional down-regulation of RUNX3 and H19, but only the H19 transcription was down-regulated in the chronically CSE-treated urothelial cells. Transcription of a key enzyme in one-carbon metabolism, dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) was greatly reduced by the long-term CSE treatment, potentially serving as a mechanism for the hypomethylation phenotype via a reduced supply of methyl donor. In conclusion, chronic cyclic CSE treatment of urothelial cells induced hypomethylation rather than hypermethylation at specific loci.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a tumor suppressor gene, its inactivation due to hypermethylation related to carcinogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) on cell proliferation and apoptosis by demethylation of the promoter region and restoring the expression of RUNX3 in the breast cancer MCF-7 cell line. MCF-7 cells were cultured with different concentrations (0.4-102.4 μmol/L) of 5-Aza-CdR in vitro. MTT assay was used to determine the proliferation of MCF-7 cells. Flow cytometry and Hoechst staining were used for analyzing cell apoptosis. The methylation status and expression of RUNX3 in mRNA and protein levels were measured by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR [MSP]), reverse transcription (RT)-PCR, and Western blot. It was shown that the RUNX3 gene downregulated and hypermethylated in MCF-7 cells. 5-Aza-CdR induced demethylation, upregulated the expression of RUNX3 on both mRNA and protein levels in cancer cells, and induced growth suppression and apoptosis in vitro in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The results demonstrate that RUNX3 downregulation in breast cancer is frequently due to hypermethylation, and that 5-Aza-CdR can inhibit cell proliferation and induce apoptosis by eliminating the methylation status of RUNX3 promoter and restoring its expression.
The study of the pathogenesis of breast cancer is challenged by the long time-course of the disease process and the multi-factorial nature of generating oncogenic insults. The characterization of the longitudinal pathogenesis of malignant transformation from baseline normal breast duct epithelial dynamics may provide vital insight into the cascading systems failure that leads to breast cancer. To this end, extensive information on the baseline behavior of normal mammary epithelium and breast cancer oncogenesis was integrated into a computational model termed the Ductal Epithelium Agent-Based Model (DEABM). The DEABM is composed of computational agents that behave according to rules established from published cellular and molecular mechanisms concerning breast duct epithelial dynamics and oncogenesis. The DEABM implements DNA damage and repair, cell division, genetic inheritance and simulates the local tissue environment with hormone excretion and receptor signaling. Unrepaired DNA damage impacts the integrity of the genome within individual cells, including a set of eight representative oncogenes and tumor suppressors previously implicated in breast cancer, with subsequent consequences on successive generations of cells. The DEABM reproduced cellular population dynamics seen during the menstrual cycle and pregnancy, and demonstrated the oncogenic effect of known genetic factors associated with breast cancer, namely TP53 and Myc, in simulations spanning ∼40 years of simulated time. Simulations comparing normal to BRCA1-mutant breast tissue demonstrated rates of invasive cancer development similar to published epidemiologic data with respect to both cumulative incidence over time and estrogen-receptor status. Investigation of the modeling of ERα-positive (ER+) tumorigenesis led to a novel hypothesis implicating the transcription factor and tumor suppressor RUNX3. These data suggest that the DEABM can serve as a potentially valuable framework to augment the traditional investigatory workflow for future hypothesis generation and testing of the mechanisms of breast cancer oncogenesis.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with photosensitizer is one of the promising modalities for cancer treatment. For clinical use of PDT, screening process should be preceded to enhance sensitivity to PDT. Thus, we investigated a molecular biomarker to determine the sensitivity to pheophorbide a (Pa)-PDT in immortalized human oral keratinocytes (IHOK) and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cell lines. Two IHOK and several OSCC cell lines were used. After Pa-PDT, cell viability was reduced by more than 50%, and reactive oxygen species were generated in IHOK and OSCC cell lines. Additionally, apoptosis occurred in PDT-treated cells. IHOK(S) and IHOK(P), the two IHOK cell lines derived from the same source, showed a difference in cytotoxicity after Pa-PDT. To explain this difference in cytotoxicity, we looked at the expression of Wnt signaling-related genes in these two cell lines, for the morphology of IHOK(S) which was spindle like and elongated and distinct from IHOK(P) and the parent cell. Among the relevant genes, runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), an apoptosis-related gene, was selected as a potential marker that confers sensitivity to PDT. We found that the cytotoxicity by Pa-PDT was proportional to RUNX3 expression in OSCC cell lines. Additionally, knockdown of RUNX3 expression reduced cytotoxicity by Pa-PDT, suggesting that RUNX3 might be a biomarker to determine sensitivity to Pa-PDT. This was the first study to find a new target molecule that enhances Pa-PDT effects in IHOK and OSCC cell lines. Hence, the development of a PDT-dependent biomarker could provide a novel approach to improve the effects of PDT on oral precancerous and cancerous lesions.
Teeth are composed of two domains, the enamel-covered crown and the enamel-free root. The understanding of the initiation and regulation of crown and root domain formation is important for the development of bioengineered teeth. In most teeth the crown develops before the root, and erupts to the oral cavity whereas the root anchors the tooth to the jawbone. However, in the continuously growing mouse incisor the crown and root domains form simultaneously, the crown domain forming the labial and the root domain the lingual part of the tooth. While the crown-root border on the incisor distal side supports the distal enamel extent, reflecting an evolutionary diet adaptation, on the incisor mesial side the root-like surface is necessary for the attachment of the interdental ligament between the two incisors. Therefore, the mouse incisor exhibits a functional distal-mesial asymmetry. Here, we used the mouse incisor as a model to understand the mechanisms involved in the crown-root border formation. We analyzed the cellular origins and gene expression patterns leading to the development of the mesial and distal crown-root borders. We discovered that Barx2, En1, Wnt11, and Runx3 were exclusively expressed on the mesial crown-root border. In addition, the distal border of the crown-root domain might be established by cells from a different origin and by an early Follistatin expression, factor known to be involved in the root domain formation. The use of different mechanisms to establish domain borders gives indications of the incisor functional asymmetry.
Epigenetic silencing of tumor-suppressor genes by promoter hypermethylation contributes considerably to the initiation and progression of cancer. Nucleoside analogs, the most widely used DNA methylation inhibitors, have the drawbacks of inducing repetitive sequence hypomethylation. Here, we aimed to specifically reverse tumor-suppressor gene (TSG) promoter hypermethylation with bovine oocyte extract. H460 human lung cancer cells were reversibly permeabilized and incubated with bovine oocyte extract for 3.5 h. The extract treatment led to significant demethylation of the hypermethylated promoters of the TSGs RUNX3, CDH1, RASSF1A and WIF1; however, the methylation levels of repetitive sequences were not affected. The promoter demethylation induced by bovine oocyte extract substantially upregulated the expression of RUNX3, CDH1, RASSF1A and WIF1, and significantly inhibited the anchorage-independent proliferation, migration and invasion of H460 cells. This study demonstrates that bovine oocyte extract can reverse the malignant phenotype by serving as an efficient and safe DNA demethylator. The active demethylation activity of bovine oocyte extract is valuable for dissecting the epigenetic alterations in cancer cells and developing novel safe anticancer drugs based on epigenetic mechanisms.
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancies and remains the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Over 70% of new cases and deaths occur in developing countries. In the early years of the molecular biology revolution, cancer research mainly focuses on genetic alterations, including gastric cancer. Epigenetic mechanisms are essential for normal development and maintenance of tissue-specific gene expression patterns in mammals. Disruption of epigenetic processes can lead to altered gene function and malignant cellular transformation. Recent advancements in the rapidly evolving field of cancer epigenetics have shown extensive reprogramming of every component of the epigenetic machinery in cancer, including DNA methylation, histone modifications, nucleosome positioning, noncoding RNAs, and microRNAs. Aberrant DNA methylation in the promoter regions of gene, which leads to inactivation of tumor suppressor and other cancer-related genes in cancer cells, is the most well-defined epigenetic hallmark in gastric cancer. The advantages of gene methylation as a target for detection and diagnosis of cancer in biopsy specimens and non-invasive body fluids such as serum and gastric washes have led to many studies of application in gastric cancer. This review focuses on the most common and important phenomenon of epigenetics, DNA methylation, in gastric cancer and illustrates the impact epigenetics has had on this field.
Chondrosarcoma is the second most common type of bone cancer. Loss of RUNX3 expression has been demonstrated in many other cancers. However, no studies have shown the relationship between RUNX3 expression and chondrosarcoma. In this study, we detected RUNX3 expression in the progression of chondrosarcoma. In patient samples, the levels of RUNX3 mRNA and protein were lower in cancer tissues than in normal tissues. Down-regulation of RUNX3 mRNA in tumor tissues was associated with an increase in RUNX3 promoter methylation. Loss of RUNX3 expression was significantly associated with more aggressive chondrosarcoma types and decreased survival time of patients. To examine the effects of exogenous expression of RUNX3 in vitro, chondrosarcoma cells were transfected with the pcDNA3.1-RUNX3 expression vector. Relative to control cells, RUNX3-expressing cells exhibited lower proliferation and higher apoptosis rates as assessed by colony formation and Annexin V-FITC/PI double staining, respectively. Taken together, these results suggest that RUNX3 acts a tumor suppressor in chondrosarcoma and that RUNX3 promoter methylation may be the molecular mechanism for its decreased expression.
BACKGROUND & AIM: Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a tumor suppressor gene that is expressed in gastric and other cancers including pancreatic cancer. However, the precise function of RUNX3 in pancreatic cancer has not been fully elucidated. In this study, we aimed to determine the effect of decreased RUNX3 expression in pancreatic cancer.METHODS: This study included 36 patients with primary pancreatic cancer, who had undergone pancreaticoduodenectomy. All patients were treated with 1000 mg/m2 gemcitabine after the surgery. The pancreatic cancer cell lines PANC-1, MIAPaCa-2, BxPC-3, SUIT-2, and KLM-1 were used for immunoblotting analysis of RUNX3 and multidrug resistance protein (MRP) expressions. Ectopic RUNX3 expression was achieved by cDNA transfection of the cells, and small interfering RNA (siRNA) against RUNX3 was used to knock down endogenous RUNX3. Cell growth in the presence of gemcitabine was assessed using the MTT assay.RESULTS: Patients with RUNX3-positive and RUNX3-negative pancreatic cancer had a median survival of 1006 and 643 days, respectively. Exogenous RUNX3 expression reduced the expression of MRP1, MRP2, and MRP5 in endogenous RUNX3-negative cells, whereas RUNX3 siRNA increased the expressions of these genes in endogenous RUNX3-positive cells. Exogenous RUNX3 expression decreased gemcitabine IC50 in RUNX3-negative cells.CONCLUSION: Loss of RUNX3 expression contributes to gemcitabine resistance by inducing MRP expression, thereby resulting in poor patient survival.
Hypermethylation of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) promoter regions occurs in at least 65% of colorectal cancer cell lines. Compound K, the main metabolite of ginseng saponin, induced demethylation of a RUNX3 promoter in HT-29 human colorectal cancer cells, assessed by methylation-specific PCR and the quantitative pyrosequencing analysis. The demethylation of RUNX3 in compound K-treated cells resulted in the re-expression of RUNX3 mRNA, protein and the localization into the nucleus. Demethylation of the RUNX3 gene by compound K occurred via inhibition of the expression and activity of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1). Compound K also significantly induced RUNX3-mediated expression of Smad4 and Bim. DNMT1 inhibitory activity by compound K was related to extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) inhibition, assessed by siRNA transfection on DNMT1 and ERK. In conclusion, compound K significantly inhibits the growth of colorectal cancer cells by inhibiting DNMT1 and reactivating epigenetically-silenced genes. Ginseng saponin is a potential candidate as DNMT1 inhibitor in the chemoprevention of cancer.
Author information:(1)Department of General Surgery, Tianjin First Central Hospital, Tianjin, China.
BACKGROUND: Susceptibility to and severity of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) are largely genetically determined. PPARGC1B, RUNX3 and TBKBP1 have recently been found to be associated with AS in patients of western European descent. Our purpose is to examine the influence of PPARGC1B, RUNX3 and TBKBP1 polymorphisms on the susceptibility to and the severity of ankylosing spondylitis in Chinese ethnic majority Han population.METHODS: Blood samples are drawn from 396 AS patients and 404 unrelated healthy controls. All the patients and the controls are Han Chinese and the patients are HLA-B27 positive. The AS patients are classified based on the severity of the disease. Twelve tag single nucleotide polymorphisms (tagSNPs) in PPARGC1B, RUNX3 and TBKBP1 are selected and genotyped. Frequencies of different genotypes and alleles are analyzed among the different severity AS patients and the controls.RESULTS: After Bonferroni correction, the rs7379457 SNP in PPARGC1B shows significant difference when comparing all AS patients to controls (p = 0.005). This SNP also shows significant difference when comparing normal AS patients to controls (p = 0.002). The rs1395621 SNP in RUNX3 shows significant difference when comparing severe AS patients to controls (p = 0.007). The rs9438876 SNP in RUNX3 shows significant difference when comparing normal AS patients to controls (p = 0.007). The rs8070463 SNP in TBKBP1 shows significant difference in genotype distribution when comparing severe AS patients to controls (p = 0.003).CONCLUSIONS: The rs7379457 SNP in PPARGC1B is related to susceptibility to AS in Chinese Han population. The rs7379457 SNP in PPARGC1B, the rs1395621 and rs9438876 SNPs in RUNX3, and the rs8070463 SNP in TBKBP1 are related to the severity of AS in Chinese Han population.
Urinary bladder cancer is the fifth most common cancer in the Western world. Increasing evidence has shown that DNA methylation in bladder cancer is expansive and is implicated in pathogenesis. Furthermore, distinct methylation patterns have been identified between non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC), as well as between FGFR3-mutant and wild-type tumours. Given these distinctions in expression, methylated genes have been proposed as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for patients with bladder cancer. Indeed, several studies have revealed that methylated genes--including CDH1, FHIT, LAMC2, RASSF1A, TIMP3, SFRP1, SOX9, PMF1 and RUNX3--are associated with poor survival in patients with MIBC. Further validation of these markers for prognostication as well as surveillance (of patients with NMIBC) is required. Validated markers for progression, diagnosis, survival and BCG response will contribute to clinical decision-making and individualized treatment.
Runx2 and Runx3 are known to be expressed in the growth plate during endochondral bone formation. Here we addressed the functional role of Runx3 as distinct from Runx2 by using two models of postnatal bone repair: fracture healing that proceeds by an endochondral process and marrow ablation that proceeds by only an intramembranous process. Both Runx2 and Runx3 mRNAs were differentially up regulated during fracture healing. In contrast, only Runx2 showed increased expression after marrow ablation. During fracture healing, Runx3 was expressed earlier than Runx2, was concurrent with the period of chondrogenesis, and coincident with maximal aggrecan expression a protein associated with proliferating and permanent cartilage. Immunohistological analysis showed Runx3 protein was also expressed by chondrocytes in vivo. In contrast, Runx2 was expressed later during chondrocyte hypertrophy, and primary bone formation. The functional activities of Runx3 during chondrocyte differentiation were assessed by examining its regulatory actions on aggrecan gene expression. Aggrecan mRNA levels and aggrecan promoter activity were enhanced in response to the over-expression of either Runx2 and Runx3 in ATDC5 chondrogenic cell line, while sh-RNA knocked down of each Runx protein showed that only Runx3 knock down specifically suppressed aggrecan mRNA expression and promoter activity. ChIP assay demonstrated that Runx3 interactions were selective to sites within the aggrecan promoter and were only observed during early periods of chondrogenesis before hypertrophy. Our studies suggest that Runx3 positively regulates aggrecan expression and suggest that its function is more limited to cartilage development than to bone. In aggregate these data further suggest that the various members of the Runx transcription factors are involved in the coordination of chondrocyte development, maturation, and hypertrophy during endochondral bone formation.
OBJECTIVE: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) remains the most lethal disease among gynecological malignancies. Prompt diagnosis is challenging because of the non-specific symptoms exhibited during the early stage of the disease. As a result, there is an urgent need for improved detection methods. In this study, we established a multiplex methylation-specific PCR (MSP) assay to improve the early detection of ovarian cancer, via identification of the methylation status of cell-free serum DNA.METHODS: After screening, we chose seven candidate genes (APC, RASSF1A, CDH1, RUNX3, TFPI2, SFRP5 and OPCML) with a high frequency of methylation to construct the multiplex-MSP assay. When methylation of at least one of the seven genes was observed, the multiplex-MSP assay was considered positive. We performed retrospective and screening studies to verify the specificity and sensitivity of the assay in the detection of EOC.RESULTS: The methylation status of cell-free serum DNA was examined in the preoperative serum of 202 patients, including 87 EOC patients (stage I, n=41; stage II-IV, n=46), 53 patients with benign ovarian tumors and 62 healthy controls. As expected, the multiplex MSP assay achieved a sensitivity of 85.3% and a specificity of 90.5% in stageI EOC, strikingly higher rates compared with a single CA125, which produced a sensitivity of 56.1% at 64.15% specificity [P=0.0036].CONCLUSION: A multiplex MSP assay that analyzes the methylation status of cell-free serum DNA is a suitable and reliable approach to improve the early detection of ovarian cancer, potentially benefiting a broad range of applications in clinical oncology.
CD4(+) helper and CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells, two major subsets of αβTCR expressing lymphocytes, are differentiated from common precursor CD4(+)CD8(+) double-positive (DP) thymocytes. Bifurcation of the CD4(+)/CD8(+) lineages in the thymus is a multilayered process and is thought to culminate in a loss of developmental plasticity between these functional subsets. Advances in the last decade have deepened our understanding of the transcription control mechanisms governing CD4 versus CD8 lineage commitment. Reciprocal expression and antagonistic interplay between two transcription factors, ThPOK and Runx3, is crucial for driving thymocyte decisions between these two cell fates. Here, we first focus on the regulation of ThPOK expression and its role in directing helper T cell development. We then discuss a novel aspect of the ThPOK/Runx3 axis in modifying CD4(+) T cell function upon exposure to gut microenvironment.
BACKGROUND: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a common inflammatory skin disease. Previous studies have revealed shared genetic determinants among different inflammatory disorders, suggesting that markers associated with immune-related traits might also play a role in AD.OBJECTIVE: We sought to identify novel genetic risk factors for AD.METHODS: We examined the results of all genome-wide association studies from a public repository and selected 318 genetic markers that were significantly associated with any inflammatory trait. These markers were considered candidates and tested for association with AD in a 3-step approach including 7 study populations with 7130 patients with AD and 9253 control subjects.RESULTS: A functional amino acid change in the IL-6 receptor (IL-6R Asp358Ala; rs2228145) was significantly associated with AD (odds ratio [OR], 1.15; P = 5 × 10(-9)). Interestingly, investigation of 2 independent population-based birth cohorts showed that IL-6R 358Ala specifically predisposes to the persistent form of AD (ORpersistent AD = 1.22, P = .0008; ORtransient AD = 1.04, P = .54). This variant determines the balance between the classical membrane-bound versus soluble IL-6R signaling pathways. Carriers of 358Ala had increased serum levels of soluble IL-6R (P = 4 × 10(-14)), with homozygote carriers showing a 2-fold increase. Moreover, we demonstrate that soluble IL-6R levels were higher in patients with AD than in control subjects (46.0 vs 37.8 ng/mL, P = .001). Additional AD risk variants were identified in RAD50, RUNX3, and ERBB3.CONCLUSION: Our study supports the importance of genetic variants influencing inflammation in the etiology of AD. Moreover, we identified a functional genetic variant in IL6R influencing disease prognosis and specifically predisposing to persistent AD.
The aim of this study was to investigate the differential expression and regulation of Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) in mouse uterus during early pregnancy and its regulation by steroid hormones using in situ hybridization. There was a low level of the Runx3 mRNA expression in the mouse uterus on days 1-4 of pregnancy. On day 5 when embryo implanted, Runx3 mRNA signal was obviously observed in the stromal cells surrounding the implanting blastocyst. From day 6 to 8 of pregnancy, Runx3 mRNA was highly expressed in the decidual cells and mesometrial decidual beds. Similarly, Runx3 mRNA was strongly expressed in decidualized cells under artificial decidualization. Compared with the delayed uterus, a high level of Runx3 mRNA signal was detected in the uterus with activated implantation. In the ovariectomized mouse uterus, estrogen could induce the expression of Runx3, while progesterone had no effects. These results suggest that Runx3 may play an important role during mouse implantation and decidualization. Estrogen can induce the expression of Runx3 in the ovariectomized mouse uterus.
AIM: To evaluate the relationship among Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection, CagA status, and dietary factors with RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation.METHODS: Gastric cancer tissue samples were collected from 184 South Korean patients. All patients were interviewed following a semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire. The average frequencies of intake and portion sizes of 89 common food items were documented, and total intakes of calories, nutrients, vitamins, and minerals were calculated for each subject. DNA was extracted from gastric cancer tissue samples, and amplification of the HSP60 gene was performed to detect H. pylori infection. Nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to detect the presence of the CagA gene. RUNX3 gene expression was measured by reverse transcription-PCR, and RUNX3 methylation status was evaluated by methylation-specific PCR. The odds ratios (ORs) and 95%CI associated with RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation status were estimated for each of the food groups, lifestyle factors, and the interaction between dietary and lifestyle factors with CagA status of H. pylori infection.RESULTS: Overall, 164 patients (89.1%) were positive for H. pylori DNA, with the CagA gene detected in 59 (36%) of these H. pylori-positive samples. In all, 106 (57.6%) patients with gastric cancer demonstrated CpG island hypermethylation at the RUNX3 promoter. RUNX3 expression was undetectable in 52 (43.7%) of the 119 gastric cancer tissues sampled. A high consumption of eggs may increase the risk of RUNX3 methylation in gastric cancer patients, having a mean OR of 2.15 (range, 1.14-4.08). A significantly increased OR of 4.28 (range, 1.19-15.49) was observed with a high consumption of nuts in patients with CagA-positive H. pylori infection. High intakes of carbohydrate, vitamin B1, and vitamin E may decrease the risk of RUNX3 methylation in gastric cancer tissue, particularly in CagA- or H. pylori-negative infection, with OR of 0.41 (0.19-0.90), 0.42 (0.20-0.89), and 0.29 (0.13-0.62), respectively. A high consumption of fruits may protect against RUNX3 methylation.CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the CagA status of H. pylori infection may be a modifier of dietary effects on RUNX3 methylation in gastric cancer tissue.
AIM: To evaluate the utility of measuring epigenetic alterations in pancreatic and biliary fluids in determining molecular markers for pancreatobiliary cancers.METHODS: DNA was extracted from undiluted pancreatic and biliary fluids. As a surrogate for a genome-wide hypomethylation assay, levels of long interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1) methylation were analyzed using bisulfite pyrosequencing. CpG island hypermethylation of 10 tumor-associated genes, aryl-hydrocarbon receptor repressor, adenomatous polyposis coli, calcium channel, voltage dependent, T type α1G subunit, insulin-like growth factor 2, O-6-methyl-guanine-DNA methyltransferase, neurogenin 1, CDKN2A, runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), secreted frizzled-related protein 1, and ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal esterase L1 (UCHL1), was analyzed using MethyLight. To examine the role of CpG methylation and histone deacetylation in the silencing of UCHL1, human gallbladder carcinoma cell lines and pancreatic carcinoma cell lines were treated with 2 or 5 μmol/L 5-AZA-dC for 72 h or 100 nmol/L Trichostatin A for 24 h. After the treatment, UCHL1 expression was analyzed by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.RESULTS: Pancreatobiliary cancers exhibited significantly lower LINE-1 methylation levels in pancreatic and biliary fluids than did noncancerous pancreatobiliary disease (58.7% ± 4.3% vs 61.7% ± 2.2%, P = 0.027; 53.8% ± 6.6% vs 57.5% ± 1.7%, P = 0.007); however, LINE-1 hypomethylation was more evident in pancreatic cancer tissues than in pancreatic fluids (45.4% ± 5.5% vs 58.7% ± 4.3%, P < 0.001). CpG island hypermethylation of tumor-associated genes was detected at various frequencies, but it was not correlated with LINE-1 hypomethylation. Hypermethylation of the UCHL1 gene was cancer-specific and most frequently detected in pancreatic (67%) or biliary (70%) fluids from patients with pancreatobiliary cancer. As a single marker, hypermethylation of the UCHL1 gene in pancreatic and biliary fluids was most useful for the detection of pancreatic and pancreatobiliary cancers, respectively (100% specificity). Hypermethylation of the UCHL1 and RUNX3 genes in pancreatic and biliary fluids was the most useful combined marker for pancreatic (87% sensitivity and 100% specificity) and pancreatobiliary (97% sensitivity and 100% specificity) cancers. Treatment with a demethylating agent, 5-AZA-2'-deoxycytidine, restored UCHL1 expression in pancreatobiliary cancer cell lines.CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that hypermethylation of UCHL1 and RUNX3 in pancreatobiliary fluid might be useful for the diagnosis of pancreatobiliary cancers.
Underexpression of the gene runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), an important tumor suppressor, is known to contribute to gastric cancer progression. However, the mechanism underlying aberrant RUNX3 expression has not been fully elucidated. We investigated the role of microRNA-148a (miR-148a) and DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) in RUNX3 promoter methylation and gene expression. RUNX3 mRNA, RUNX3 protein, and methylation levels were assayed in human gastric cancer tissues and matched normal tissues, and AGS and BGC-823 cells by real-time reverse transcription PCR, Western blot, and methylation-specific PCR, respectively. A correlation between RUNX3 mRNA levels and that of miR-148a was also investigated in gastric cancer tissues. We found that RUNX3 mRNA levels were significantly downregulated in gastric cancer tissues compared with their matched normal tissues, and were closely associated with miR-148a expression. After treatment of human gastric cancer AGS and BGC-823 cells with the DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, a significant increase in RUNX3 mRNA, RUNX3 protein, and the non-methylated form of the RUNX3 promoter were observed relative to untreated cells. Enforced expression of miR-148a, which can modulate DNMT1 and DNMT3B, also increased the expression of RUNX3 in gastric cancer cells. Knockdown of DNMT1 was associated with increased levels of RUNX3 mRNA and RUNX3 protein, while knockdown of DNMT3B did not have any effect on these in BGC-823 cells. Our results show that miR-148a may regulate RUNX3 expression through modulation of DNMT1-dependent DNA methylation in gastric cancer and highlight a miRNA-epigenetics regulation mechanism of gene expression.
RUNX3 is silenced by histone modification and hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α is stabilized under hypoxia, but little is known of cross-talk between RUNX3 and HIF-1α under hypoxia. In the present study, the authors investigated the effect of RUNX3 on HIF-1α stability in gastric cancer cells. RUNX3 overexpression was found to downregulate HIF-1α stability under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Furthermore, the activity of a luciferase reporter containing five copies of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) promoter hypoxia-responsive element (5 × HRE) and the amount of secreted VEGF, were diminished in RUNX3-expressing but increased in RUNX3-knockdown cells. When expression of RUNX3 was recovered using epigenetic reagents the expressions of HIF-1α and VEGF were clearly suppressed under hypoxic conditions. RUNX3 also significantly attenuated the half-life of HIF-1α protein, and induced the cytosolic localization and ubiquitination of HIF-1α. In addition, RUNX3 directly interacted with the C-terminal activation domain of HIF-1α and prolyl hydroxylase (PHD) 2 and enhanced the interaction between HIF-1α and PHD2, which potentiated proline hydroxylation and promoted the degradation of HIF-1α. Furthermore, RUNX3 overexpression significantly inhibited hypoxia-induced angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Taken together, these results suggest that RUNX3 destabilizes HIF-1α protein by promoting the proline hydroxylation of HIF-1α through binding to HIF-1α/PHD2. RUNX3 appears to be a novel suppressor of HIF-1α and of hypoxia-mediated angiogenesis in gastric cancer cells.
A subset of aggressive colorectal cancers exhibit BRAF mutation, MLH1 methylation, and a CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP), but precursors are poorly established. In this study, we determined the status of these markers in colorectal polyps and evaluated associated risk factors. The study included 771 polyp cases and 1,027 controls who were ages 24 to 80 years, part of a group health program, received a colonoscopy from 1998 to 2007, and completed a structured questionnaire assessing risk factors. Following standard pathology review, polyps were assayed for BRAF mutation (V600E) and tested for MLH1 and CIMP methylation, the latter including the genes, CACNA1G, IGF2, NEUROG1, RUNX3, and SOCS1. Polytomous logistic regression was used to estimate ORs and 95% confidence intervals for the association between molecularly defined subsets of polyps and potential risk factors. There were 580 conventional adenomas and 419 serrated lesions successfully assayed. For adenomas, the prevalence of each marker was ≤1%. In contrast, 55% of serrated lesions harbored mutant BRAF, 26% were CIMP-high, and 5% had methylated MLH1. In these lesions, the highest prevalence of markers was in sessile-serrated polyps (SSP) of ≥10 mm that were in the right-side/cecal regions of the colon. Risk factors for CIMP-high-serrated lesions included Caucasian race, current smoking status, and a history of polyps, whereas for serrated lesions with mutant BRAF, the significant risk factors were male sex, current smoking status, obesity, and a history of polyps. Our results suggest that SSPs and other large, right-sided serrated lesions have a unique molecular profile that is similar to CIMP-high, BRAF-mutated colorectal cancers.
PURPOSE: Lacrimal gland (LG) morphogenesis and repair are regulated by a complex interplay of intrinsic factors (e.g., transcription factors) and extrinsic signals (e.g., soluble growth/signaling factors). Many of these interconnections remain poorly characterized. Runt-related (Runx) factors belong to a small family of heterodimeric transcription factors known to regulate lineage-specific proliferation and differentiation of stem cells. The purpose of this study was to define the expression pattern and the role of Runx proteins in LG development and regeneration.METHODS: Expression of epithelial-restricted transcription factors in murine LG was examined using immunostaining, qRT-PCR, and RT(2)Profiler PCR microarrays. The role of Runx transcription factors in LG morphogenesis was studied using siRNA and ex vivo LG cultures. Expression of Runx transcription factors during LG regeneration was assessed using in vivo model of LG regeneration.RESULTS: We found that Runx factors are expressed in the epithelial compartment of the LG; in particular, Runx1 was restricted to the epithelium with highest level of expression in ductal and centroacinar cells. Downregulation of Runx1 to 3 expression using Runx-specific siRNAs abolished LG growth and branching and our data suggest that Runx1, 2, and 3 are partially redundant in LG development. In siRNA-treated LG, reduction of branching correlated with reduction of epithelial proliferation, as well as expression of cyclin D1 and the putative epithelial progenitor cell marker cytokeratin-5. Runx1, Runx3, and cytokeratin-5 expression increased significantly in regenerating LG and there was modest increase in Runx2 expression during LG differentiation.CONCLUSIONS: Runx1 and 2 are new markers of the LG epithelial lineage and Runx factors are important for normal LG morphogenesis and regeneration.
PURPOSE: Schistosoma haematobium is associated with chronic bladder damage and may subsequently induce bladder cancer in humans, thus posing a serious threat where the parasite is endemic. Here we evaluated aberrant promoter DNA methylation as a potential biomarker to detect severe bladder damage that is associated with schistosomiasis by analyzing urine specimens.MATERIALS AND METHODS: A quantitative methylation-specific PCR (QMSP) assay was used to examine the methylation status of seven genes (RASSF1A, RARβ2, RUNX3, TIMP3, MGMT, P16, ARF) in 57 urine samples obtained from volunteers that include infected and uninfected by S. haematobium from an endemic region. The Fishers Exact Test and Logistic Regression analysis were used to evaluate the methylation status with bladder damage (as assessed by ultrasound examination) in subjects with S. haematobium infection.RESULTS: RASSF1A and TIMP3 were significant to predict severe bladder damage both in univariate (p = 0.015 and 0.023 respectively) and in multivariate (p = 0.022 and 0.032 respectively) logistic regression analysis. Area under the receiver operator characteristic curves (AUC-ROC) for RASSF1A and TIMP3 to predict severe bladder damage were 67.84% and 63.73% respectively. The combined model, which used both RASSF1A and TIMP3 promoter methylation, resulted in significant increase in AUC-ROC compared to that of TIMP3 (77.55% vs. 63.73%.29; p = 0.023).CONCLUSIONS: In this pilot study, we showed that aberrant promoter methylation of RASSF1A and TIMP3 are present in urine sediments of patients with severe bladder damage associated with S. haematobium infection and that may be used to develop non-invasive biomarker of S. haematobium exposure and early molecular risk assessmentof neoplastic transformation.
BACKGROUND: The Cub and Sushi Multiple Domains 1 (CSMD1) gene, located on the short arm of chromosome 8, codes for a type I transmembrane protein whose function is currently unknown. CSMD1 expression is frequently lost in many epithelial cancers. Our goal was to characterize the relationships between CSMD1 somatic mutations, allele imbalance, DNA methylation, and the clinical characteristics in colorectal cancer patients.METHODS: We sequenced the CSMD1 coding regions in 54 colorectal tumors using the 454FLX pyrosequencing platform to interrogate 72 amplicons covering the entire coding sequence. We used heterozygous SNP allele ratios at multiple CSMD1 loci to determine allelic balance and infer loss of heterozygosity. Finally, we performed methylation-specific PCR on 76 colorectal tumors to determine DNA methylation status for CSMD1 and known methylation targets ALX4, RUNX3, NEUROG1, and CDKN2A.RESULTS: Using 454FLX sequencing and confirming with Sanger sequencing, 16 CSMD1 somatic mutations were identified in 6 of the 54 colorectal tumors (11%). The nonsynonymous to synonymous mutation ratio of the 16 somatic mutations was 15:1, a ratio significantly higher than the expected 2:1 ratio (p = 0.014). This ratio indicates a presence of positive selection for mutations in the CSMD1 protein sequence. CSMD1 allelic imbalance was present in 19 of 37 informative cases (56%). Patients with allelic imbalance and CSMD1 mutations were significantly younger (average age, 41 years) than those without somatic mutations (average age, 68 years). The majority of tumors were methylated at one or more CpG loci within the CSMD1 coding sequence, and CSMD1 methylation significantly correlated with two known methylation targets ALX4 and RUNX3. C:G>T:A substitutions were significantly overrepresented (47%), suggesting extensive cytosine methylation predisposing to somatic mutations.CONCLUSIONS: Deep amplicon sequencing and methylation-specific PCR reveal that CSMD1 alterations can correlate with earlier clinical presentation in colorectal tumors, thus further implicating CSMD1 as a tumor suppressor gene.
Paeonol, a major phenolic component of the root bark of Paeonia moutan, is known to exhibit antitumor effects. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. In the present study, the effects of paeonol on cell viability, intracellular calcium concentration and the expression of runt‑related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) were analyzed in LoVo human colon cancer cells. Results revealed that paeonol markedly reduced LoVo cell viability in a time‑ and dose‑dependent manner. Flow cytometry assays demonstrated that paeonol blocked the cell cycle at the G1 to S transition and significantly induced apoptosis in LoVo cells. Intracellular calcium accumulation occurred following a 48 h treatment with paeonol. Furthermore, RUNX3 gene expression was increased in paeonol‑treated cells. These observations indicate that paeonol possesses antiproliferative properties and apoptosis‑inducing activity. One of the antitumor mechanisms of paeonol may be its apoptosis‑inducing activity through an increased intracellular calcium concentration and the upregulation of RUNX3 expression. Paeonol may be a promising antitumor agent for colon carcinoma treatment.
The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of Runt box 3 (RUNX3) and aplasia Ras homolog member I (ARHI) in ovarian tumors, and the effects of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACIs) on the expression of these genes and the growth of ovarian cancer cells. The mRNA expression of the RUNX3 and ARHI genes in normal ovaries and ovarian tumors was determined using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The effects of HDACIs on RUNX3 and ARHI expression in four ovarian cancer cell lines (SKOV3, A2780, COC1 and OC3) were determined using RT-PCR and the MTT assay. The expression of RUNX3 and ARHI in normal ovarian cells was 86 and 100%, respectively. Although the two genes were downregulated in ovarian tumors, the extent of downregulation differed. The expression of RUNX3 and ARHI was correlated with the degree of tumor malignancy (P<0.05). ARHI was expressed in all four ovarian cancer cell lines, whereas RUNX3 was expressed only in the OC3 cell line. Treatment with HDACIs upregulated the expression of ARHI and RUNX3 in the SKOV3 cell line only. In A2780 cells, HDACIs upregulated ARHI expression only in the presence of trichostatin A (TSA) plus cisplatin. HDACIs induced significant apoptosis in ovarian cancer cells, which was inversely correlated with the concentration and duration of treatment (P<0.05). In conclusion, RUNX3 and ARHI were shown to be expressed in normal ovarian cells; however, their expression was downregulated or lost in ovarian tumor cells. The combined detection of ARHI and RUNX3 expression may offer improved prediction and monitoring of ovarian malignancies. HDACIs were revealed to inhibit the growth of ovarian tumor cells and may constitute a novel therapeutic option for ovarian tumors.
Liver sinusoidal endothelial cell lectin (LSECtin) was recently reported to suppress intrahepatic T cell immunity and to limit immune-mediated liver injury. However, its role in the outcome and pathogenesis of viral infection has not yet been elucidated. Using a mouse model infected with a hepatotropic adenovirus, we found that the absence of LSECtin led to a higher frequency of intrahepatic effector CTLs. These cells produced higher levels of antiviral cytokines and cytotoxic factors and exhibited an increased expression of the transcription factors T-bet and Runx3. This phenotype observed in the LSECtin-knockout cells mediated a more efficient virus-specific cytotoxicity compared with that of wild-type cells. As a consequence, LSECtin deficiency significantly accelerated liver adenovirus clearance. In contrast, LSECtin upregulation in the liver delayed viral clearance; this delayed clearance was accompanied by the downregulation of the antiviral activity of CTLs. We further constructed an immunocompetent mouse model of acute hepatitis B viral infection to demonstrate that LSECtin significantly delayed the clearance of hepatitis B virus from blood and infected hepatocytes by limiting the frequency of hepatitis B virus-specific IFN-γ-producing cells. Consistent with this function, LSECtin was upregulated in the liver of mouse models of viral hepatitis. Taken together, our results suggest that LSECtin may facilitate the reduction of liver inflammation at the cost of delaying virus clearance and that this effect might be hijacked by the virus as an escape mechanism.
PURPOSE: Changes in DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes early in carcinogenesis represent potential indicators of cancer detection and disease evolution. We examined the diagnostic, stratification and prognostic biomarker roles in urine of the methylation of a novel panel of tumor suppressor genes in bladder cancer.MATERIAL AND METHODS: We evaluated the methylation of 18 tumor suppressor genes in 2 prospective, independent sets of urine samples (training set of 120 preparations and validation set of 128) from patients with bladder cancer (170) and controls (78) using methylation specific multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Diagnostic performance was evaluated with ROC curves. Recurrence, progression and disease specific survival were analyzed using univariate and multivariate Cox models.RESULTS: PRDM2, HLTF, ID4, DLC1, BNIP3, H2AFX, CACNA1G, TGIF and CACNA1A were methylated in bladder cancer. CCND2, SCGB3A1, BNIP3, ID4 and RUNX3 were the most frequently methylated tumor suppressor genes in each urine set. Methylation of several tumor suppressor genes correlated with clinicopathological variables, such as stage, tumor grade, focality or age. ROC analysis revealed significant diagnostic accuracy for RUNX3 and CACNA1A in the training set, and for RUNX3 and ID4 in the validation set. On univariate and multivariate analysis CACNA1A methylation correlated with recurrence in the training set, while in the validation set PRDM2 and BNIP3 were significantly associated with recurrence and disease specific survival, respectively.CONCLUSIONS: Tumor suppressor gene methylation allowed for histopathological and clinical stratification. Urine methylation has noninvasive usefulness not only for diagnostic assessment but also as independent bladder cancer prognosticators.
Monocytes can be differentiated into macrophages in vivo and these cells play an important role in innate and adaptive immune responses. To reveal the global gene transcription change that occurs during monocyte to macrophage differentiation, we performed genome-wide RNA sequencing and analyses in human primary monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages. We show that 1208 genes (with >twofold differences) were differentially expressed in macrophages compared with monocytes, including 800 upregulated and 408 downregulated genes. Gene ontology, pathway, and protein-protein interaction analyses indicated that the upregulated genes were related to macrophage functions in phagocytosis, metabolic processes, and cell cycle. The majority of downregulated genes comprised genes involved in the inflammatory response and locomotion. Genes encoding transcription regulatory factors, such as FOXO1, RUNX3, NF-κB1, and C/EBP δ, were highly expressed in monocytes and appeared to function in significant transcriptional repression, resulting in slight metabolic activity. Our transcriptome comparison between human monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages using RNA sequencing revealed novel molecules and pathways associated with the differentiation process. These molecules and pathways may represent candidate targets involved in the pathophysiology of these important immune cells.
RUNX3 (runt-related transcription factor-3) is a known tumor suppressor gene which exhibits potent antitumor activity in several carcinomas. However, little is known about the role of RUNX3 in human renal cell carcinoma (RCC). To investigate the clinical relevance of RUNX3 in RCC patients, immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the clinical relevance of RUNX3 in 75 RCC tissues and paired non-cancerous tissues by using tissue microarray (TMA). We also investigated the role of RUNX3 in RCC cell migration, invasion and angiogenesis. The RUNX3 expression was decreased dramatically in human RCC tissue. The RUNX3 expression was significantly correlated with tumor size (P<0.001), depth of invasion (P<0.001), and of TNM stage (P<0.001). Restoration of RUNX3 significantly decreased renal carcinoma cell migration and invasion capacity compared with controls. In addition, we found that overexpression of RUNX3 reduced the proliferation and tube formation of human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (HUVECs). Gelatin zymography and Western blot showed that RUNX3 expression suppressed matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) protein level and enzyme activity. Western blot and ELISA showed that RUNX3 restoration inhibited the expression and secretion of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Taken together, our studies indicate that decreased expression of RUNX3 in human RCC tissue is significantly correlated with RCC progression. Restoration of RUNX3 expression significantly inhibits RCC cells migration, invasion and angiogenesis. These findings provide new insights into the significance of RUNX3 in migration, invasion and angiogenesis of RCC.
Tongue squamous cell carcinoma (TSCC) is one of the most common types of oral cancer; however, its molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, methylated DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP) coupled with methylation microarray analysis was performed to screen for aberrantly methylated genes in adjacent normal control and TSCC tissues from 9 patients. Roche NimbleGen Human DNA Methylation 385K Promoter Plus CpG Island Arrays were used to detect 28,226 CpG sites. A total of 1,269 hypermethylated CpG sites covering 330 genes and 1,385 hypomethylated CpG sites covering 321 genes were found in TSCC tissue, compared to the adjacent normal tissue. Furthermore, we chose three candidate genes (FBLN1, ITIH5 and RUNX3) and validated the DNA methylation status by methylation-specific PCR (MS-PCR) and the mRNA expression levels by reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR). In TSCC tissue, FBLN1 and ITIH5 were shown to be hypermethylated and their expression was found to be decreased, and RUNX3 was shown to be hypomethylated, however, its mRNA expression was found to be increased. In addition, another three genes (BCL2L14, CDCP1 and DIRAS3) were tested by RT-PCR. In TSCC tissue, BCL2L14 and CDCP1 expressions were markedly upregulated, and DIRAS3 expression was significantly downregulated. Our data demonstrated that aberrant DNA methylation is observed in TSCC tissue and plays an important role in the tumorigenesis, development and progression of TSCC.
Dendritic cells (DCs) promote tolerance or immunity depending on their maturation state, which is enhanced or accelerated upon MEK-ERK signaling pathway inhibition. We have determined the contribution of MEK-ERK activation to the profile of gene expression of human immature monocyte-derived dendritic cells (MDDCs) and peripheral blood myeloid DCs. ERK inhibition altered the expression of genes that mediate Chemokine (C-C motif) ligand 19 (CCL19)-directed migration (CCR7) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) binding (CD36, SCARB1, OLR1, CXCL16) by immature DCs. In addition, ERK upregulated CCL2 expression while impairing the expression of DC maturation markers (RUNX3, ITGB7, IDO1). MEK-ERK-regulated genes exhibited an overrepresentation of cognate sequences for the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) transcription factor, whose transcriptional and DNA-binding activities increased in MDDCs upon exposure to the MEK1/2 inhibitor U0126. Therefore, the MEK-ERK signaling pathway regulates antigen capture, lymph node homing, and acquisition of maturation-associated genes, and its contribution to the maintenance of the immature state of MDDCs and myeloid DCs is partly dependent on the activity of AhR. Since pharmacologic modulation of the MEK-ERK signaling pathway has been proposed as a potential therapeutic strategy for cancer, our findings indicate that ERK inhibitors might influence antitumor responses through regulation of critical DC effector functions.
OBJECTIVE: Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) is a common inflammatory joint disease distinct from other chronic arthritides and frequently accompanied by psoriasis vulgaris. In a first genome-wide association study (GWAS), we were able to identify several genetic risk factors. However, even combined with previously identified factors, the genetic contribution to disease was not fully explained. Therefore, we undertook this study to investigate further 17 loci from our GWAS that did not reach genome-wide significance levels of association in the initial analysis.METHODS: Twenty-one of 22 single-nucleotide polymorphisms were successfully genotyped in independent cohorts of 1,398 PsA patients and 6,389 controls and in a group of 964 German patients with psoriasis vulgaris.RESULTS: Association with a RUNX3 variant, rs4649038, was replicated in independent patients and controls and resulted in a combined P value of 1.40 × 10(-8) by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test and an odds ratio (OR) of 1.24 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 1.15-1.33). Further analyses based on linkage disequilibrium (LD) at RUNX3 refined the most significant association to an LD block located in the first intron of one isoform. Weaker evidence for association was detected in German patients with psoriasis vulgaris (P = 5.89 × 10(-2) ; OR 1.13 [95% CI 1.00-1.28]), indicating a role in the skin manifestations of psoriasis.CONCLUSION: Our analyses identified variants in RUNX3 as susceptibility factors for PsA. RUNX3 has already been implicated in susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis, another spondyloarthritis, although its risk allele is independent from the one for PsA. RUNX-3 is involved in CD8+ T lymphocyte differentiation and is therefore a good candidate for involvement in PsA and psoriasis vulgaris as T cell-mediated diseases.
Endochondral bone formation begins with the development of a cartilage intermediate that is subsequently replaced by calcified bone. The mechanisms occurring during early chondrogenesis that control both mesenchymal cell differentiation into chondrocytes and cell proliferation are not clearly understood in vertebrates. Indian hedgehog (Ihh), one of the hedgehog signaling molecules, is known to control both the hypertrophy of chondrocytes and bone replacement; these processes are particularly important in postnatal endochondral bone formation rather than in early chondrogenesis. In this study, we utilized the maternal transfer of 5E1 to E12.5 in mouse embryos, a process that leads to an attenuation of Ihh activity. As a result, mouse limb bud chondrogenesis was inhibited, and an exogenous recombinant IHH protein enhanced the proliferation and differentiation of mesenchymal cells. Analysis of the genetic relationships in the limb buds suggested a more extensive role for Ihh and Runx genes in early chondrogenesis. The transfer of 5E1 decreased the expression of Runx2 and Runx3, whereas an exogenous recombinant IHH protein increased Runx2 and Runx3 expression. Moreover, a transcription factor Gli1 in hedgehog pathway enhances the direct induction of both Runx2 and Runx3 transcription. These findings suggested that Ihh signaling plays an important role in chondrocyte proliferation and differentiation via interactions with Runx2 and Runx3.
Runt-related transcription factors (Runx) regulate the development of various cells. It has been reported that Runx1 and Runx3 are expressed in distinct subpopulations of primary sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), and play important roles in the differentiation of nociceptive and proprioceptive neurons, respectively. In the present study, we examined the developmental changes of the expression of Runx1 and Runx3 in the mouse DRG during embryonic and postnatal stages. We found that the expression of Runx3 preceded that of Runx1, but dramatically decreased before birth, whereas the Runx1 expression was maintained during postnatal periods. These results suggest that roles of Runx1 and Runx3 may change dynamically in the differentiation and maturation of DRG neurons. In addition, several DRG neurons expressed both Runx1 and Runx3 throughout embryonic and postnatal stages and many Runx3-expressing DRG neurons coexpressed Runx1 at postnatal day 28. Double and triple labeling studies suggest that some of the Runx1/Runx3-double expressing neurons coexpressed TrkB, c-ret, and TrkC, which have been shown in the mechanoreceptive DRG neurons. These results suggest that Runx1/Runx3-double expressing neurons may represent mechanoreceptive properties in the DRG.
Runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) is essential for normal mouse development, and Runx3 knock-out (KO) mice (FVB strain), which die within 24 h after birth, show various organ defects, such as lung hyperplasia. For proper early liver development, angiogenesis and liver cell differentiation mechanisms are necessary in mammals. Previous studies have reported that various signaling molecules, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), von Willebrand factor (vWF) and cluster of differentiation 31 (CD31), are closely related to angiogenesis in the developing liver. Proper expression levels of molecules that induce liver cell differentiation, such as phosphorylated Smad2 (pSmad2), nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kB), Wilms tumor-1 (WT-1) and CD90 (Thy-1), are necessary for fetal liver development. To confirm the pathogenesis of liver defects caused by the loss of function of Runx3, the localization of proliferating cells was examined in wild-type and Runx3 KO mouse livers at postnatal day 1 (PN1). Specimens were also stained for various liver differentiation markers to confirm the function of Runx3. Moreover, gene expression level was examined by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Our results indicate that VEGF, vWF, CD31, pSmad2, NF-kB, WT-1 and Thy-1 were markedly up-regulated by the loss of Runx3. Therefore, our results indicate that liver development is controlled by Runx3. Clarifying the mechanisms of angiogenesis and liver differentiation might aid in the design of efficient and safe antiangiogenic therapy and gene therapy for liver disorders.
Author information:(1)Department of Pediatric Pneumology and Allergy, University Children's Hospital Regensburg (KUNO), Regensburg, Germany.
BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs can promote or suppress the evolution of malignant behaviors by regulating multiple targets. We aimed to determine the expression of miR-301a recently screened in gastric cancer, to investigate the biological effects of miR-301a and to identify the specific miR-301a target gene.METHODS: Quantitative real-time RT-PCR was used to test miR-301a expression. Functional effects were explored by a water-soluble tetrazolium salt assay, a colony formation assay in soft agar, a migration assay, an invasion assay and cytometry used to determine apoptosis and cell cycle. Nude mice were inoculated subcutaneously by retrovirus-mediated stably expressed SGC-7901 cells. The target gene was determined by bioinformatic algorithms, dual luciferase reporter assay and Western blot.RESULTS: Firstly, we found that miR-301a was significantly upregulated both in cells and tissues of gastric cancer. The expression level of miR-301a was inversely correlated with tumor differentiation of gastric cancer tissues. Secondly, miR-301a promoted cell growth, soft agar clonogenicity, migration, invasion, and decreased cell apoptosis induced by cisplatin in vitro, while blockage of miR-301a reduced the percentage of G2/M phase cells via flow cytometry in gastric cancer cells. Ectopic expression of miR-301a enhanced the subcutaneous tumorigenesis in vivo. Finally, miR-301a directly downregulated RUNX3 expression post-transcriptionally in gastric cancer.CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that miR-301a plays important roles in the development of gastric cancer.
Comment in    Nat Rev Immunol. 2013 Mar;13(3):151.
CD4(+) helper T cells are essential for immune responses and differentiate in the thymus from CD4(+) CD8(+) "double-positive" (DP) thymocytes. The transcription factor Runx3 inhibits CD4(+) T-cell differentiation by repressing Cd4 gene expression; accordingly, Runx3 is not expressed in DP thymocytes or developing CD4(+) T cells. The transcription factor Thpok is upregulated in CD4-differentiating thymocytes and required to repress Runx3. However, how Runx3 is controlled at early stages of CD4(+) T-cell differentiation, before the onset of Thpok expression, remains unknown. Here we show that Gata3, a transcription factor preferentially and transiently upregulated by CD4(+) T-cell precursors, represses Runx3 and binds the Runx3 locus in vivo. Accordingly, we show that high-level Gata3 expression and expression of Runx3 are mutually exclusive. Furthermore, whereas Runx3 represses Cd4, we show that Gata3 promotes Cd4 expression in Thpok-deficient thymocytes. Thus, in addition to its previously documented role in promoting CD4-lineage gene-expression, Gata3 represses CD8-lineage gene expression. These findings identify Gata3 as a critical pivot of CD4-CD8 lineage differentiation.
Author information:(1)Department of Urology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710032, China. wangguodong021014@163.com
Comment in    Korean J Intern Med. 2012 Dec;27(4):391-3.
DOI: 10.3904/kjim.2012.27.4.391PMCID: PMC3529236PMID: 23269878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
T-bet plays an important role in immunoregulation; it induces the differentiation of Th1 together with the homeobox transcription factor gene Hlx. Recent studies show that T-bet and Th1-associated factors are critical in regulating tumor development. However, the contributions of Hlx in the occurrence and development of cancer remain unknown. In this study, the Hlx, T-bet, Runx3, and IFN-γ were measured in PBMC from patients with gastric cancer and the correlation between Hlx and T-bet or IFN-γ was assessed. The expression levels of Hlx, T-bet, and IFN-γ were significantly decreased, and there was a positive correlation between Hlx and T-bet or IFN-γ. In addition, the Runx3 expression was also downregulated with the lower T-bet mRNA level. These results suggested that the decreased Hlx expression was closely associated with T-bet and Runx3 downregulations and may contribute to the development of gastric cancer.
PURPOSE: Gastric cancer is a leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Limited therapeutic options highlight the need to understand the molecular changes responsible for the disease and to develop therapies based on this understanding. The goal of this study was to develop cell-permeable (CP-) forms of the RUNT-related transcription factor 3, RUNX3-a candidate tumor suppressor implicated in gastric and other epithelial cancers-to study the therapeutic potential of RUNX3 in the treatment of gastric cancer.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We developed novel macromolecule transduction domains (MTD) which were tested for the ability to promote protein uptake by mammalian cells and tissues and used to deliver of biologically active RUNX3 into human gastric cancer cells. The therapeutic potential CP-RUNX3 was tested in the NCI-N87 human tumor xenograft animal model.RESULTS: RUNX3 fusion proteins, HM(57)R and HM(85)R, containing hydrophobic MTDs enter gastric cancer cells and suppress cell phenotypes (e.g., cell-cycle progression, wounded monolayer healing, and survival) and induce changes in biomarker expression (e.g., p21(Waf1) and VEGF) consistent with previously described effects of RUNX3 on TGF-β signaling. CP-RUNX3 also suppressed the growth of subcutaneous human gastric tumor xenografts. The therapeutic response was comparable with studies augmenting RUNX3 gene expression in tumor cell lines; however, the protein was most active when administered locally, rather than systemically (i.e., intravenously).CONCLUSIONS: These results provide further evidence that RUNX3 can function as a tumor suppressor and suggest that practical methods to augment RUNX3 function could be useful in treating of some types of gastric cancer.
Germ cell tumors (GCTs) are thought to arise from primordial germ cells (PGCs) that undergo epigenetic reprogramming. To explore the mechanisms of GCT formation, we analyzed single-nucleotide polymorphism array comparative genomic hybridization patterns and the methylation status of 15 tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) and differentially methylated regions (DMRs) of two imprinted genes, H19 and SNRPN, in 28 children with GCTs. Three GCTs with 25-26 segmental uniparental disomies (UPDs), heterozygous centromeric regions, and a highly methylated SNRPN DMR may have occurred through meiosis I error. Three other GCTs with whole UPD and homozygous centromeric regions of all chromosomes may have occurred through endoreduplication of a haploid set in an ovum or testis. The other 22 GCTs had heterozygous centromeric regions of all chromosomes and no or a small number of segmental or whole UPDs and may have developed from premeiotic PGCs before imprint erasure or a reestablishment of imprinting. Gain and amplification of 3p24-p22 and 20q13-q13, and loss and UPD of 1p36-p35, 4q21-q21, 5q11-q13, and 6q26-qter were found in five or more tumors. 1p36-p35 loss was frequent, and found in 19 tumors; RUNX3 residing at 1p36 was methylated in the promoter regions of 16 tumors. Two yolk sac tumors with many segmental UPDs or whole UPD of all chromosomes had gain of 20q13-q13 and loss of 1p36-p35, and seven or eight methylated TSGs. These genetic and epigenetic alterations may have caused malignant transformation because they were rarely found in teratomas with segmental or whole UPDs.
The cartilaginous elements forming the pharyngeal arches of the zebrafish derive from cranial neural crest cells. Their proper differentiation and patterning are regulated by reciprocal interactions between neural crest cells and surrounding endodermal, ectodermal and mesodermal tissues. In this study, we show that the endodermal factors Runx3 and Sox9b form a regulatory cascade with Egr1 resulting in transcriptional repression of the fsta gene, encoding a BMP antagonist, in pharyngeal endoderm. Using a transgenic line expressing a dominant negative BMP receptor or a specific BMP inhibitor (dorsomorphin), we show that BMP signaling is indeed required around 30 hpf in the neural crest cells to allow cell differentiation and proper pharyngeal cartilage formation. Runx3, Egr1, Sox9b and BMP signaling are required for expression of runx2b, one of the key regulator of cranial cartilage maturation and bone formation. Finally, we show that egr1 depletion leads to increased expression of fsta and inhibition of BMP signaling in the pharyngeal region. In conclusion, we show that the successive induction of the transcription factors Runx3, Egr1 and Sox9b constitutes a regulatory cascade that controls expression of Follistatin A in pharyngeal endoderm, the latter modulating BMP signaling in developing cranial cartilage in zebrafish.
Sixteen nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy lipoprotein measurements of more than 1,000 subjects of GOLDN study, at fasting and at 3.5 and 6 h after a postprandial fat (PPL) challenge at visits 2 and 4, before and after a 3 weeks Fenofibrate (FF) treatment, were included in 6 time-independent multivariate factor analyses. Their top 1,541 unique SNPs were assessed for association with GOLDN NMR-particles and classical lipids. Several SNPs with -log₁₀ p > 7.3 and MAF ≥ 0.10, mostly intergenic associated with NMR-single traits near genes FAM84B (8q24.21), CRIPT (2p21), ACOXL (2q13), BCL2L11 (2q13), PCDH10 (4q28.3), NXPH1 (7p22), and SLC24A4 (14q32.12) in association with NMR-LDLs; HOMER1 (5q14.2), KIT (4q11-q12), VSNL1 (2p24.3), QPRT (16p11.2), SYNPR (3p14.2), NXPH1 (7p22), NELL1 (11p15.1), and RUNX3 (1p36) with NMR-HDLs; and DOK5-CBLN4-MC3R (20q13), NELL1 (11p15.1), STXBP6 (14q12), APOB (2p24-p23), GPR133 (12q24.33), FAM84B (8q24.21) and NR5A2 (1q32.1) in association with NMR-VLDLs particles. NMR single traits associations produced 75 % of 114 significant candidates, 7 % belonged to classical lipids and 18 % overlapped, and 16 % matched for time of discovery between NMR- and classical traits. Five proxy genes, (ACOXL, FAM84B, NXPH1, STK40 and VAPA) showed pleiotropic effects. While tagged for significant associations in our study and with some extra evidence from the literature, candidates as CBNL4, FAM84B, NXPH1, SLC24A4 remain unclear for their functional relation to lipid metabolism. Although GOLDN study is one of the largest in studying PPL and FF treatment effects, the relatively small samples (over 700-1,000 subjects) in association tests appeals for a replication of such a study. Thus, further investigation is needed.
The Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX) belong to an ancient family of metazoan genes involved in developmental processes. Through multiple protein-interacting partners, RUNX proteins have been implicated in diverse signaling pathways and cellular processes. The frequent inactivation of RUNX genes in cancer indicates crucial roles for RUNX in tumor suppression. This review discusses the abilities of RUNX proteins, in particular RUNX3, to integrate oncogenic signals or environmental cues and to initiate appropriate tumor suppressive responses.
Author information:(1)Department of Biostatistics, Center for Statistical Genetics, University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
Author information:(1)Department of Oromaxillofacial-Head and Neck Surgery, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China. daiweionline@gmail.com
The minor allele (G) of rs4939827, a SMAD7 (18q21) intronic variant, is associated with a lower risk of developing colorectal cancer (CRC) and poorer survival after diagnosis. Our objective was to evaluate the associations of this variant with different tumor phenotype and intratumoral molecular characteristics. We evaluated 1509 CRC cases and 2307 age-matched controls nested within the Nurses' Health Study and the Health Professionals Follow-up Study. We used the TaqMan assay to genotype rs4939827 and logistic regression to assess the association of rs4939827 with risk of CRC according to different phenotypic and molecular characteristics. We found that the minor allele (G) in rs4939827 (SMAD7, 18q21) was associated with a lower risk of developing tumor stage pT1 or pT2 CRC [multivariate odds ratio (OR), 0.73; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.62-0.87] but not tumor stage pT3 or pT4 (multivariate OR, 1.07; 95% CI 0.93-1.23, P for heterogeneity = 1.2 × 10(-4)). The association between rs4939827 and CRC also significantly differed by methylation of RUNX3 (P for heterogeneity = 0.005). Among those with CRC, the minor allele (G) in rs4939827 was significantly associated with poorer overall survival (hazards ratio, 1.20; 95% CI, 1.02-1.42). We can conclude that the minor allele (G) of the germline intronic SMAD7 variant rs4939827 is associated with a lower risk of CRC with earlier tumor stage and CRC without methylation of the tumor suppressor RUNX3. These findings suggest that individuals with this SMAD7 variant that develop CRC are more probably to have tumors with greater invasiveness and methylation of RUNX3, which potentially contributes to their poorer observed survival.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS), a byproduct of cellular metabolism, damage intracellular macromolecules and, when present in excess, can promote normal hematopoietic stem cell differentiation and exhaustion. However, mechanisms that regulate the amount of ROS in leukemia-initiating cells (LICs) and the biological role of ROS in these cells are largely unknown. We show here that the ROS(low) subset of CD44(+) cells in T cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), a malignancy of immature T cell progenitors, is highly enriched in the most aggressive LICs and that ROS accumulation is restrained by downregulation of protein kinase C θ (PKC-θ). Notably, primary mouse T-ALLs lacking PKC-θ show improved LIC activity, whereas enforced PKC-θ expression in both mouse and human primary T-ALLs compromised LIC activity. We also show that PKC-θ is regulated by a new pathway in which NOTCH1 induces runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), RUNX3 represses RUNX1 and RUNX1 induces PKC-θ. NOTCH1, which is frequently activated by mutation in T-ALL and required for LIC activity in both mouse and human models, thus acts to repress PKC-θ. These results reveal key functional roles for PKC-θ and ROS in T-ALL and suggest that aggressive biological behavior in vivo could be limited by therapeutic strategies that promote PKC-θ expression or activity, or the accumulation of ROS.
The frequencies of DNA methylation of certain tumor-related genes are higher in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated gastric carcinomas than in EBV-negative gastric carcinomas. EBV-associated gastric carcinomas have distinct clinicopathological features; however, there are no case-control studies comparing methylation frequency between EBV-associated gastric carcinomas and controls that have been adjusted according to the clinicopathological features of EBV-associated gastric carcinomas. This study evaluated 25 EBV-associated gastric carcinomas that were positive for EBV-encoded small RNA 1 (EBER-1) by in situ hybridization and 50 EBV-negative gastric carcinomas that were matched with the EBV-associated gastric carcinomas by age, sex, histology, depth of tumor invasion, and stage. Methylation status of 16 loci associated with tumor-related genes was analyzed by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to identify genes in which DNA methylation specifically occurred in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas. Methylation frequencies of 12 of the 16 genes were higher in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas than in EBV-negative controls, and the frequency of methylation of 6 specific loci (MINT2, MINT31, p14, p16, p73, and RUNX3) was significantly higher in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas than in EBV-negative controls. There were no significant differences in the methylation frequencies of the other genes. The mean methylation index in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas was significantly higher than that in EBV-negative controls. DNA methylation of tumor suppressor genes that regulate the cell cycle and apoptosis specifically occurred in EBV-associated gastric carcinomas. Aberrant DNA methylation might lead to the development and progression of EBV-associated gastric carcinoma.
In Barrett's esophagus (BE), the normal squamous lining of the esophagus is replaced by specialized columnar epithelium. Endoscopic surveillance with autofluorescence imaging (AFI) and molecular biomarkers have been studied separately to detect early neoplasia (EN) in BE. The combination of advanced-imaging modalities and biomarkers has not been investigated; AFI may help detecting biomarkers as a risk-stratification tool. We retrospectively evaluated a cohort of patients undergoing endoscopy for EN in BE with AFI and correlated five biomarkers (HPP1, RUNX3, p16, cyclin A, and p53) in tissue samples with AFI and dysplasia status. Fifty-eight samples from a previous prospective study were selected: 15 true-positive (TP: AFI-positive, EN), 21 false-positive (FP: AFI-positive, no EN), 12 true-negative (TN1; AFI-negative, no EN in sample), 10 true-negative (TN2: AFI-negative, no EN in esophagus). Methylation-specific RT-PCR was performed for HPP1, RUNX3, p16, and immunohistochemistry for cyclin A, p53. P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Bonferroni correction was used for multiple comparisons. P16, cyclin A, p53 correlated with dysplasia (P < 0.01, P = 0.003, P < 0.001, respectively). Increased p16 methylation was observed between TP versus TN2 (P = 0.003) and TN1 versus TN2 (P = 0.04) subgroups, suggesting a field defect. Only p53 correlated with AFI-status (P = 0.003). After exclusion of EN samples, significance was lost. Although correlation with dysplasia status was confirmed for p16, cyclin A and p53, underlining the importance of these biomarkers as an early event in neoplastic progression, none of the investigated biomarkers correlated with AFI status. A larger prospective study is needed to assess the combination of AFI and a larger panel of biomarkers to improve risk stratification in BE.
AIM: To investigate the association between the CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) and serum Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) levels for clinical prediction of gastric cancer (GC) progression.METHODS: We analyzed the serum CIMP status of 75 patients with GC using a methylation marker panel and a methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. Serum samples from 40 healthy persons were examined at the same time. The genes examined were APC, WIF-1, RUNX-3, DLC-1, SFRP-1, DKK and E-cad. H. pylori infection in serum was assayed with an anti-H. pylori immunoglobulin G antibody test and a rapid urease test.RESULTS: The frequencies of high-level methylation in GC tissues for the seven genes were: 48% for APC, 57.33% for WIF-1, 56% for RUNX-3, 50.67% for DLC-1, 52% for SFRP-1, 54.67% for DKK, and 48% for E-cad. The frequencies in GC serum were 30.67% for APC, 34.67% for WIF-1, 37.33% for RUNX-3, 29.33% for DLC-1, 33.33% for SFRP-1, 32% for DKK, and 26.67% for E-cad. CIMP+ (defined as ≥ 3 methylated genes) was associated with 47 (62.67%) GC tissue samples and 44 (58.67%) GC serum samples. CIMP+ was not associated with non-neoplastic mucosal tissues or the serum of healthy persons. Of the 75 GC cases, 51 (68%) were H. pylori+, and 24 (32%) were H. pylori-. Of the 51 H. pylori+ cases, 36 were CIMP+ and 15 were CIMP-. In contrast, for the 24 H. pylori- cases, 11 were CIMP+, and 13 were CIMP-. The difference was significant between the H. pylori+ and H. pylori- groups (χ(2) = 4.27, P < 0.05). Of the 51 H. pylori+ GC patients, 34 were CIMP+ and 17 were CIMP-, while among the 24 H. pylori- GC cases, 10 were CIMP+ and 14 were CIMP-. The difference was significant between the H. pylori+ and H. pylori- groups (χ(2) = 4.21, P < 0.05). A 2-year follow-up showed significant difference in the rates of metastasis and recurrence between H. pylori+/CIMP+ cases and the H. pylori+/CIMP- cases or CIMP- cases associated with H. pylori assayed in serum (P < 0.05). However, there were no significant differences in survival rates between the two groups.CONCLUSION: H. pylori+/CIMP+ cases are associated with higher rates of metastasis and recurrence than H. pylori+/CIMP- cases. Serum may be useful for examining CIMP status.
The three RUNX family members are lineage specific master regulators, which also have important, context-dependent roles in carcinogenesis as either tumor suppressors or oncogenes. Here we review evidence for such roles in breast cancer (BCa). RUNX1, the predominant RUNX family member in breast epithelial cells, has a tumor suppressor role reflected by many somatic mutations found in primary tumor biopsies. The classical tumor suppressor gene RUNX3 does not consist of such a mutation hot spot, but it too seems to inhibit BCa; it is often inactivated in human BCa tumors and its haploinsufficiency in mice leads to spontaneous BCa development. The tumor suppressor activities of RUNX1 and RUNX3 are mediated in part by antagonism of estrogen signaling, a feature recently attributed to RUNX2 as well. Paradoxically, however RUNX2, a master osteoblast regulator, has been implicated in various aspects of metastasis in general and bone metastasis in particular. Reciprocating the anti-estrogenic tumor suppressor activity of RUNX proteins, inhibition of RUNX2 by estrogens may help explain their context-dependent anti-metastatic roles. Such roles are reserved to non-osseous metastasis, because ERα is associated with increased, not decreased skeletal dissemination of BCa cells. Finally, based on diverse expression patterns in BCa subtypes, the successful use of future RUNX-based therapies will most likely require careful patient selection.
The prognostic impact of CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) and microsatellite instability (MSI) on the treatment outcome of colon cancer patients receiving adjuvant 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) is unclear. We investigated CIMP and MSI status in colorectal cancer patients treated with adjuvant FOLFOX. Stages II and III sporadic colorectal cancer patients who underwent curative resection followed by adjuvant FOLFOX were included. Eight CpG island loci (CACNA1G, CRABP1, IGF2, MLH1, NEUROG1, CDKN2A (p16), RUNX3 and SOCS1) and five microsatellite markers were examined. Disease-free survival (DFS) was analyzed according to CIMP and MSI status. A total of 322 patients were included: male/female 192/130, median age 61 years (range 30-78), proximal/distal location 118/204 and Stages II/III 43/279. CIMP status was high in 25 patients (7.8%) and 21 patients (6.5%) had MSI-high tumor. CIMP/MSI status was not significantly associated with DFS: 3-year DFS 100% in CIMP(-)/MSI(+), 84% in CIMP(-)/MSI(-), 82% in CIMP(+)/MSI(-) and 75% in CIMP(+)/MSI(+) (p = 0.33). Results of exploratory analysis showed that concurrent methylation at NEUROG1 and CDKN2A (p16) was associated with shorter DFS: 3-year DFS 69% in NEUROG1(+)/CDKN2A (p16)(+) versus 87% in NEUROG1(-)/CDKN2A (p16)(-) (p = 0.006). In conclusion, concurrent methylation of NEUROG1 and CDKN2A (p16) is associated with recurrence following adjuvant FOLFOX in Stages II/III colorectal cancer.
After receiving a TCR-mediated differentiation signal, CD4 and CD8 double-positive thymocytes diverge into CD4 or CD8 single-positive T cells, for which Th-POK and Runx3 have been identified as pivotal transcription factors, respectively. The cross-antagonistic regulation of Th-POK and Runx3 seems to be essential for CD4/8 thymocyte lineage commitment. However, the process for determining which pivotal factor acts dominantly has not been established. To explore the determining process, we used an in vitro culture system in which CD4 or CD8 single-positive cells are selectively induced from CD4/8 double-positive cells. Surprisingly, we found that control of G(1) cell cycle phase progression is critical for the determination. In the CD4 pathway, sustained TCR signal, as well as Th-POK, induces G(1)-phase extension and represses CD8 expression in a G(1) extension-dependent manner. In the CD8 pathway, after receiving a transient TCR signal, the IL-7R signal, as well as Runx3, antagonizes TCR signal-mediated G(1) extension and CD8 repression. Importantly, forced G(1) extension cancels the functions of Runx3 to repress Th-POK and CD4 and to reactivate CD8. In contrast, it is suggested that forced G(1) progression inhibits Th-POK function to repress CD8. Collectively, Th-POK and Runx3 are reciprocally involved in the control of G(1)-phase progression, on which they exert their functions dependently. These findings may provide novel insight into how CD4/CD8 cell lineages are determined by Th-POK and Runx3.
CD4(+)Foxp3(+) T regulatory cells (Tregs) display phenotypic and functional plasticity that is regulated by cytokines and other immune cells. Previously, we determined that during co-culture with CD4(+)CD25(-) T cells and antigen presenting cells, Tregs produced IL-17. Here, we investigated the mechanisms underlying the differentiation of IL-17-producing Treg (Tr17) cells and their molecular and functional properties. We determined that during stimulation via TCR/CD3 and CD28, the combination of IL-1β and IL-2 was necessary and sufficient for the generation of Tr17 cells. Tr17 cells expressed Runx1 transcription factor, which was required for sustained expression of Foxp3 and RORγt and for production of IL-17. Surprisingly, Tr17 cells also expressed Runx3, which regulated transcription of perforin and granzyme B thereby mediating cytotoxic activity. Our studies indicate that Tr17 cells concomitantly express Foxp3, RORγt, Runx1 and Runx3 and are capable of producing IL-17 while mediating potent suppressive and cytotoxic function.
Mutually exclusive cell fate determination of CD4 helper or CD8 killer T cells occurs in the thymus. These T-cell subsets are not believed to redirect other lineages. Here we showed that retinoic acid and transforming growth factor-β1 promoted the differentiation of CD8αα T cells from CD4 T cells in a Runx3-dependent manner. These cells were inferred to belong to immunoregulatory populations because subpopulations of CD8αα+TCRαβ T cells are known to suppress activated T cells, and mice with Runx3(-/-) T cells showed defects during recovery from experimental allergic encephalomyelitis. Our results demonstrate that CD4 T cells play fundamental roles in controlling immune reactions through promotion and attenuation. We accordingly anticipate that clarifying the mechanisms underlying this process will provide insights leading to autoimmune and immunodeficiency disease therapies.
BACKGROUND: The provirus integration site for Moloney murine leukemia virus (Pim) 1 kinase is an oncogenic serine/threonine kinase implicated in cytokine-induced cell signaling, whereas Runt-related transcription factor (Runx) has been implicated in the regulation of T-cell differentiation. The interaction of Pim1 kinase and Runx3 in the pathogenesis of peanut allergy has not been defined.OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine the effects of Pim1 kinase modulation on Runx3 expression and T(H)2 and T(H)17 cell function in an experimental model of peanut allergy.METHODS: A Pim1 kinase inhibitor was administered to peanut-sensitized and challenged wild-type and Runx3(+/-) mice. Symptoms, intestinal inflammation, and Pim1 kinase and Runx3 mRNA expression and protein levels were assessed. The effects of Pim1 kinase inhibition on T(H)1, T(H)2, and T(H)17 differentiation in vivo and in vitro were also determined.RESULTS: Peanut sensitization and challenge resulted in accumulation of inflammatory cells and goblet cell metaplasia and increased levels of Pim1 kinase and T(H)2 and T(H)17 cytokine production but decreased levels of Runx3 mRNA and protein in the small intestines of wild-type mice. All of these findings were normalized with Pim1 kinase inhibition. In sensitized and challenged Runx3(+/-) mice, inhibition of Pim1 kinase had less effect on the development of the full spectrum of intestinal allergic responses. In vitro inhibition of Pim1 kinase attenuated T(H)2 and T(H)17 cell differentiation and expansion while maintaining Runx3 expression in T-cell cultures from wild-type mice; these effects were reduced in T-cell cultures from Runx3(+/-) mice.CONCLUSION: These data support a novel regulatory axis involving Pim1 kinase and Runx3 in the control of food-induced allergic reactions through the regulation of T(H)2 and T(H)17 differentiation.
Aberrant promoter methylation and subsequent silencing of cancer-related genes has been recognized as an important pathway involved in gastric carcinogenesis. In fact, several factors are believed to contribute to its induction in gastric epithelia, including aging, diet, chronic inflammation and infection of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). However, the underling mechanisms are not completely identified, despite the belief that increased expression or activity of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs), or decreased demethylation activity may contribute to the excessive methylation. A great number of genes with promoter methylation have been observed in gastric cancer (GC), among which p16INK4A (p16), Mut L homologue 1 (MLH1), Epithelial-cadherin (E-cadherin), Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), adenomatous polyposis coli (APC), O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), Ras association domain family 1A (RASSF1A) and Death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) have been extensively studied. Unlike the distinct methylation characterization in single genes, methylation analysis of multiple genes may provide more information in risk prediction, early detection, prognosis assessment and chemotherapy choice for GC. Specifically, particular monitoring and screening should be performed on those over 45 years old, with precancerous gastric disease or infection of H. pylori or EBV. As an alternative to tumor tissues, methylation detection in patient sera or gastric washes may also be used in risk prediction and early detection. However, what still poses a great challenge as well as a puzzle is the determination of the very genes that should be used in methylation analysis. Because epigenetic alterations are normally reversible, drugs or chemical compounds with demethylating activity, such as 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dC) could be used in the treatment of patients with multiple gene methylation. In view of the adverse effects of 5-aza-dC, DNMT-targeted strategy has been proposed and may prove to be more effective than demethylating agents.
Epigenetic silencing of cancer-related genes plays an important role in oral/oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). We evaluated promoter hypermethylation of 4 cancer-related genes in OSCCs of a Brazilian cohort and determined its relationship with exposure to alcohol, tobacco, HPV infection and clinicopathological parameters. CDKN2A (cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A or p16), SFN (stratifin or 14-3-3 σ), EDNRB (endothelin receptor B) and RUNX3 (runt-related transcript factor-3) had their methylation patterns evaluated by MSP analysis in OSCC tumors (n = 45). HPV detection was carried out by PCR/RFLP. Aberrant methylation was detected in 44/45 (97.8 %) OSCC; 24.4 % at CDKN2A, 77.8 % at EDNRB, 17.8 % at RUNX3 and 97.8 % at SFN gene. There was no significant association between methylation patterns and clinical parameters. HPV (subtype 16) was detected in 3 out of 45 patients (6 %). Our findings indicate that HPV infection is uncommon and methylation is frequent in Brazilian OSCCs, however, EDNRB and SFN gene methylation are not suitable OSCC biomarkers due to indistinct methylation in tumoral and normal samples. In contrast, CDKN2A and RUNX3 genes could be considered differentially methylated genes and potential tumor markers in OSCCs.
OBJECTIVE: The present study has focused on the identification of differences between the expression pattern of TGF-β signaling pathway genes in athletes after exercise.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study group consisted of three healthy cyclists, which were collected pre-exercise, immediately postexercise, and after 15 min of recovery. The analysis of the expression profile of genes related to the TGF-β signal transduction pathway was performed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells using HG-U133A oligonucleotide microarrays.RESULTS: A significant differential gene expression was recorded for RUNX3, TGFBR3, MLC1, and GRB2.CONCLUSIONS: The effect of physical exercise on immune response may be essential for human health. Moreover, alterations of TGF-β signaling can be involved in the process of adaptation of human organism to physical exertion.
The formation of functional connectivity in the nervous system is governed by axon guidance that instructs nerve growth and branching during development, implying a similarity between neuronal subtypes in terms of nerve extension. We demonstrate the molecular mechanism of another layer of complexity in vertebrates by defining a transcriptional program underlying growth differences between positionally different neurons. The rate of axon extension of the early subset of embryonic dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons is encoded in neurons at different axial levels. This code is determined by a segmental pattern of axial levels of Runx family transcription factor Runx3. Runx3 in turn determines transcription levels of genes encoding cytoskeletal proteins involved in axon extension, including Rock1 and Rock2 which have ongoing activities determining axon growth in early sensory neurons and blocking Rock activity reverses axon extension deficits of Runx3(-/-) neurons. Thus, Runx3 acts to regulate positional differences in axon extension properties apparently without affecting nerve guidance and branching, a principle that could be relevant to other parts of the nervous system.
The transcription factor RUNX3 functions as a tumor suppressor in the gastrointestinal epithelium, where its loss is an early event in carcinogenesis. While RUNX3 acts concurrently as a mediator of TGF-β signaling and an antagonist of Wnt, the cellular changes that follow its loss and their contribution to tumorigenicity are not fully understood. Here, we report that the loss of Runx3 in gastric epithelial cells results in spontaneous epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). This produces a tumorigenic stem cell-like subpopulation, which remarkably expresses the gastric stem cell marker Lgr5. This phenomenon is due to the compounding effects of the dysregulation of the TGF-β and Wnt pathways. Specifically, Runx3(-/-) p53(-/-) gastric epithelial cells were unexpectedly sensitized for TGF-β-induced EMT, during which the resultant induction of Lgr5 was enhanced by an aberrantly activated Wnt pathway. These data demonstrate a protective role for RUNX3 in safeguarding gastric epithelial cells against aberrant growth factor signaling and the resultant cellular plasticity and stemness.
The function of tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) family including TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC in cancer remains unknown. The role of Trks in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) was examined. Knockdown of Trks provided inhibition of growth or invasion and decrease of apoptosis in OSCC cells, which expressed Trks at high levels. VEGF expression was associated with TrkA and TrkB expression; a decrease of VEGF-C and VEGF-D was observed in OSCC cells with TrkB knockdown. TrkC did not affect the expression of VEGF family. An immunohistochemical analysis of 102 OSCCs showed that TrkB expression was related to microvessel density (MVD), lymph vessel density (LVD), and poor prognosis. TrkC expression was correlated with clinical stage, lymph node metastasis, MVD, LVD, and poor prognosis. TrkA expression was associated with VEGF expression, whereas TrkB expression was associated with the expressions of VEGF, VEGF-C and VEGF-D. No significant association was found between the expression of TrkC and genes of the VEGF family. Expression of Trks was not associated with RUNX3 silencing by methylation in OSCC cells. Trks expression was inversely correlated with RUNX3 expression in the OSCC cases. These results suggested that Trks enhances progression of OSCC through angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis.
PURPOSE: Previously, we reported a causal relationship between RUNX3 methylation and bladder tumor development. Thus, in order to clarify its role in tumorigenesis, this study aims to identify the function of RUNX3 methylation in normal adjacent urothelium of patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).METHODS: Tumor tissue and donor-matched normal adjacent tissue from 55 patients who underwent transurethral resection (TUR) were selected for the study, and RUNX3 promoter methylation was assessed using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MS-PCR).RESULTS: RUNX3 promoter methylation occurred more frequently in tumor samples than in histologically normal urothelium in patients with NMIBC (P = 0.02). The methylation rates for the RUNX3 promoter in normal adjacent urothelium and tumor tissue were 47% and 69%, respectively. Interestingly, RUNX3 methylation in normal adjacent urothelium was associated with tumor number (P = 0.022) and progression (P = 0.035). Kaplan-Meier estimates revealed that RUNX3 methylation in normal urothelium showed a significant association with time to progression (P = 0.017) in NMIBC patients. Stratifying the patients into 'both methylation', 'one methylation' and 'no methylation' groups for tumors and normal urothelium revealed that no progression occurred in the 'no methylation' group during follow-up. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that RUNX3 methylation in normal urothelium [hazards ratio (HR): 5.692, P = 0.042] was an independent predictor of progression.CONCLUSIONS: RUNX3 methylation was associated with transition from normal urothelium to bladder tumor. More importantly, RUNX3 methylation in normal adjacent urothelium may predict progression in NMIBC patients who have undergone TUR.
Author information:(1)Research Center of Life Science, University of South China, Hengyang 421001, China. tgh1@163.com
Endochondral ossification is temporally and spatially regulated by several critical transcription factors, including Sox9, Runx2, and Runx3. Although the molecular mechanisms that control the late stages of endochondral ossification (e.g. calcification) are physiologically and pathologically important, these precise regulatory mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that Osterix is an essential transcription factor for endochondral ossification that functions downstream of Runx2. The global and conditional Osterix-deficient mice studied here exhibited a defect of cartilage-matrix ossification and matrix vesicle formation. Importantly, Osterix deficiencies caused the arrest of endochondral ossification at the hypertrophic stage. Microarray analysis revealed that matrix metallopeptidase 13 (MMP13) is an important target of Osterix. We also showed that there exists a physical interaction between Osterix and Runx2 and that these proteins function cooperatively to induce MMP13 during chondrocyte differentiation. Most interestingly, the introduction of MMP13 stimulated the calcification of matrices in Osterix-deficient mouse limb bud cells. Our results demonstrated that Osterix was essential to endochondral ossification and revealed that the physical and functional interaction between Osterix and Runx2 were necessary for the induction of MMP13 during endochondral ossification.
Accumulating evidence shows that runt-related transcription factor 3 (Runx3) is a putative tumor suppressor in various types of cancer, the lower levels of which are associated with a less favorable cancer outcome. However, these studies were restricted to primary cancer lesions. Lymph node metastasis (LNM) is a significant factor in determining the prognosis of patients with gastric cancer and is a frequent target of chemotherapy. In the present study, we investigated the expression of Runx3 in the lymph nodes (LNs) of stomach carcinoma and the association of Runx3 expression with the prognosis of patients. The expression of Runx3 in LNs with and without metastasis was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and Western blotting. The positive rate of Runx3 mRNA in LNM specimens was significantly lower (28.4%, 21 out of 74) compared to that of the non-metastatic samples (33.3%, 9 out of 27, P<0.05). Similar findings were obtained by Western blotting. Univariate analysis revealed that the loss of Runx3 expression in LNs was not only associated with poor clinicopathological factors, such as LNM, distant organ metastasis, later clinicopathological stages and deep infiltration, but also with a lower 5-year survival rate and poorer prognosis. These results strongly suggest a potential diagnostic value of Runx3 expression in LNs and multiple pathways contributing to the outcome of patients with gastric cancer.
Cisplatin is one of the commonly used chemotherapeutic drugs for the treatment of patients with advanced liver cancer. However, acquisition of cisplatin resistance is common in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), and the underlying mechanism of such resistance is not fully understood. In the study, we found that miR-130a levels were significantly increased in HCC patients treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy. miR-130a levels were also higher in cisplatin-resistant Huh7 cells than in Huh7 cells. Overexpression of miR-130a contributed to cisplatin resistance in Huh7 cell, whereas knockdown of miR-130a overcame cisplatin resistance in cisplatin-resistant Huh7 cell. We further demonstrated that upregulated miR-130a directly inhibited expression of tumor suppressor gene RUNX3, which resulted in activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling and increased drug resistance. These data suggest that miR-130a/RUNX3/Wnt signaling represents a novel pathway regulating chemoresistance, thus offering a new target for chemotherapy of HCC.
PURPOSE: Aberrant DNA methylation plays a role in prostate cancer progression. We studied the relationships among DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) genotype, DNA methylation, Gleason score, and mortality in two cohorts of prostate cancer patients, previously reported with associations between DNA methylation in GSTP1, APC, and RUNX3 and prostate cancer mortality. Herein, we considered possible causal relationships between the studied variables, assuming that (1) DNMT activity affects tumor tissue methylation, (2) methylation status affects tumor morphology, and thus the Gleason score, and (3) DNA methylation affects mortality via Gleason score.METHODS: The cohorts comprised 438 patients diagnosed at one Italian pathology ward before 1997, with DNA obtained from paraffin-embedded tumor tissues. The polymorphism rs406193 in the DNMT3b gene was assessed by allele discrimination in real-time PCR. According to the assumed causal model, we analyzed the effects of rs406193 (T carriers vs others) on the Gleason score without adjusting for gene methylation, and the effects of rs406193 on gene methylation and prostate cancer mortality without adjusting for Gleason score.RESULTS: We found no evidence of association between T carriers and the number of methylated genes. However, T carriers had reduced risk of a Gleason score 8+ (odds ratio = 0.57, 95 % CI 0.39-0.85), and a hazard ratio of 0.81 (0.61-1.09) of dying from prostate cancer, which would have been erroneously estimated of 0.93 if adjusted for Gleason score.CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide clues on the role of a DNMT3b SNP in prostate cancer progression and illustrate the importance of considering possible causal relationships in the analyses.
Runx3 is a transcription factor that belongs to the Runx family. We studied the localization of Runx3 mRNA in the mouse uterus, and its function in the mouse endometrium using Runx3 knockout (Runx3(-/-)) mice. Runx3 mRNA was detected in the endometrial luminal epithelial cells, glandular epithelial cells and stromal cells below the epithelial cell layer on the luminal side. The uteri of Runx3(-/-) mice were smaller than those of wt mice. The endometrial layer and uterine glands of Runx3(-/-) mice were less developed than those of wild-type mice, and the endometrial stromal layer was thinner. Transforming growth factor β1 and β3 (TGFβ1 and β3) mRNA levels in endometrial stromal cells of Runx3(-/-) mice were low compared with those of wild-type mice. Estradiol-17β (E2) increased Tgfb2 mRNA levels in endometrial stromal cells of Runx3(-/-) mice, but not in those of wild-type mice. E2 increased epidermal growth factor (EGF) mRNA levels in endometrial stromal cells of wild-type mice, but did not increase those of Runx3(-/-) mice. The diminished Tgfb1 and Tgfb3 mRNA expressions may lead to the reduced proliferation of endometrial stromal cells. Alterations of E2-associated expressions of Tgfb2 and Egf mRNA in endometrial stromal cells of Runx3(-/-) mice may be associated with suppression of E2-dependent endometrial epithelial cell proliferation in Runx3(-/-) mice. Thus, Runx3 is likely to be a regulatory factor responsible for endometrial growth.
The purpose of this study was to detect the methylation of the RUNX3 gene promoter in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tissue and to explore the association of this methylation with clinical features of NSCLC. In 58 samples of NSCLC tissue and normal adjacent tissue, methylation of the RUNX3 gene promoter was measured by methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. Correlation with clinicopathological characteristics was assessed. The results demonstrated that RUNX3 gene promoter methylation was present in 26/58 (44.8%) of NSCLC tissue samples and 10/58 (17.2%) of normal tissue samples, and that the difference was statistically significant between the two groups (χ(2)=10.311, p=0.001). Significantly, methylation of the RUNX3 gene promoter correlated with clinical stage, lymph node metastasis and the degree of differentiation (p<0.05) but not with age, gender, smoking history and pathological type (p>0.05). In conclusion, methylation of the RUNX3 gene promoter had a high relevance ratio in NSCLC tissue and correlated with clinical stage, lymph node metastasis and degree of differentiation; thus, this association may have clinical significance in NSCLC.
Author information:(1)Department of Hepatitis Treatment Center, 175 Hospital of PLA, Zhangzhou (southeast affiliated Hospital of Xiamen University), 363000 Fujian, China.
Intrathymic CD4/CD8 differentiation is a process that establishes the mutually exclusive expression profiles of the CD4 and CD8 T cell lineage. The RUNX3-mediated silencing of CD4 in CD8 lineage cells has been well documented; however, it is unclear how CD8 is silenced during CD4 lineage differentiation. In this study, we report that, by directly binding the CD8 locus, ThPOK works as a negative regulator that mediates the deacetylation of Cd8 genes and repositions the CD8 alleles close to heterochromatin during the development of the CD4 lineage. The ectopic expression of ThPOK resulted in increased recruitment of histone deacetylases at Cd8 loci; the enhanced deacetylation of Cd8 genes eventually led to impaired Cd8 transcription. In the absence of ThPOK, the enhanced acetylation and transcription of Cd8 genes were observed. The results of these studies showed that Cd8 loci are the direct targets of ThPOK, and, more importantly, they provide new insights into CD8 silencing during CD4 lineage commitment.
RUNX3 aberrations play a pivotal role in the oncogenesis of breast, gastric, colon, skin and lung tissues. The aim of this study was to characterize further the expression of RUNX3 in lung cancers. To achieve this, a lung cancer tissue microarray (TMA), frozen lung cancer tissues and lung cell lines were examined for RUNX3 expression by immunohistochemistry, while the TMA was also examined for EGFR and p53 expression. RUNX3 promoter methylation status, and EGFR and KRAS mutation status were also investigated. Inactivation of RUNX3 was observed in 70% of the adenocarcinoma samples, and this was associated with promoter hypermethylation but not biased to EGFR/KRAS mutations. Our results suggest a central role of RUNX3 downregulation in pulmonary adenocarcinoma, which may not be dependent of other established cancer-causing pathways and may have important diagnostic and screening implications.
Author information:(1)Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences, Nagasaki University, 1-7-1 Sakamoto, Nagasaki 852-8588, Japan.
A transcription factor network that includes STAT4, T-bet, and Runx3 promotes the differentiation of Th1 cells and inflammatory immune responses. How additional transcription factors regulate the function of Th1 cells has not been defined. In this study we show that the negative regulatory factor Twist1 decreases expression of T-bet, Runx3, and IL-12Rβ2 as it inhibits IFN-γ production. Ectopic expression of Runx3, but not T-bet or IL-12Rβ2, compensates for the effects of Twist1 on IFN-γ production, and Twist1 regulation of Ifng depends on complex formation with Runx3. Twist1 decreases Runx3 and T-bet binding at the Ifng locus, and it decreases chromatin looping within the Ifng locus. These data define an IL-12/STAT4-induced negative regulatory loop that impacts multiple components of the Th1 transcriptional network and provide further insight into regulation of Th1 differentiation.
Although Runx and Cbfβ transcription factor complexes are involved in the development of multiple hematopoietic lineages, their precise roles in early mouse B lymphocyte differentiation remain elusive. In this study, we examined mouse strains in which Runx1, Runx3, or Cbfβ were deleted in early B lineage progenitors by an mb1-cre transgene. Loss of Runx1, but not Runx3, caused a developmental block during early B lymphopoiesis, resulting in the lack of IgM(+) B cells and reduced V(H) to DJ(H) recombination. Expression of core transcription factors regulating early B cell development, such as E2A, Ebf1, and Pax5, was reduced in B cell precursors lacking Runx1. We detected binding of Runx1-Cbfβ complexes to the Ebf1 proximal promoter, and these Runx-binding motifs were essential to drive reporter gene expression. Runx1-deficient pro-B cells harbored excessive amounts of the repressive histone mark H3K27 trimethylation in the Ebf1 proximal promoter. Interestingly, retroviral transduction of Ebf1, but not Pax5, into Runx1-deficient progenitors restored not only development of B220(+) cells that underwent V(H) to DJ(H) rearrangement but also expression of B lineage signature genes. Collectively, these results demonstrate that Runx1-Cbfβ complexes are essential to facilitate B lineage specification, in part via epigenetic activation of the Ebf1 gene.
The DNA methylation inhibitor 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-CdR) has therapeutic value for the treatment of cancer. However, the mechanism by which 5-Aza-CdR induces antineoplastic activity is not clear. The efficacy of 5-Aza-CdR on the contribution of gene reactivation by demethylation and enzyme-DNA adduct formation is an important unresolved question. The aim of this study was to explore the mechanism of the effect of 5-Aza-CdR on human gastric cancer growth. Human BGC-823 cells were treated with different concentrations of 5-Aza-CdR for different durations. Cell viability, DNA damage and gene expression were determined. The results showed that 5-Aza-CdR at low concentrations induced inhibition of gastric cancer BGC-823 cell proliferation as well as increased apoptosis caused by DNA damage. For the first time, we demonstrated that 5-Aza-CdR-induced cytotoxicity against BGC-823 cells was predominantly regulated via upregulation of DNA methyltransferase 1, 3a and partially via reactivation of RUNX3, which was independent of p53 status and its ability to activate p21Waf1/Cip1 expression. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of p53-independent 5-Aza-CdR action on DNA methyltransferases and demethylation. These results strongly provide the preclinical rationale for the clinical evaluation of 5-Aza-CdR to improve patient outcome in gastric cancer.
Alpha-1 antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency and tobacco smoking are confirmed risk factors for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. We hypothesized that variable DNA methylation would be associated with smoking and inflammation, as reflected by the level of C-Reactive Protein (CRP) in AAT-deficient subjects. Methylation levels of 1,411 autosomal CpG sites from the Illumina GoldenGate Methylation Cancer Panel I were analyzed in 316 subjects. Associations of five smoking behaviors and CRP levels with individual CpG sites and average methylation levels were assessed using non-parametric testing, linear regression and linear mixed effect models, with and without adjustment for age and gender. Univariate linear regression analysis revealed that methylation levels of 16 CpG sites significantly associated with ever-smoking status. A CpG site in the TGFBI gene was the only site associated with ever-smoking after adjustment for age and gender. No highly significant associations existed between age at smoking initiation, pack-years smoked, duration of smoking, and time since quitting smoking as predictors of individual CpG site methylation levels. However, ever-smoking and younger age at smoking initiation associated with lower methylation level averaged across all sites. DNA methylation at CpG sites in the RUNX3, JAK3 and KRT1 genes associated with CRP levels. The most significantly associated CpG sites with gender and age mapped to the CASP6 and FZD9 genes, respectively. In summary, this study identified multiple potential candidate CpG sites associated with ever-smoking and CRP level in AAT-deficient subjects. Phenotypic variability in Mendelian diseases may be due to epigenetic factors.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the promoter hypermethylation as diagnostic markers to detect malignant prostate cells and as prognostic markers to predict the clinical recurrence of prostate cancer.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: DNA was isolated from prostate cancer and normal adjacent tissues. After bisulfite conversion, methylation of 14,495 genes was evaluated using the Methylation27 microarrays in 238 prostate tissues. We analyzed methylation profiles in four different groups: (i) tumor (n = 198) versus matched normal tissues (n = 40), (ii) recurrence (n = 123) versus nonrecurrence (n = 75), (iii) clinical recurrence (n = 80) versus biochemical recurrence (n = 43), and (iv) systemic recurrence (n = 36) versus local recurrence (n = 44). Group 1, 2, 3, and 4 genes signifying biomarkers for diagnosis, prediction of recurrence, clinical recurrence, and systemic progression were determined. Univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to predict risk of recurrence. We validated the methylation of genes in 20 independent tissues representing each group by pyrosequencing.RESULTS: Microarray analysis revealed significant methylation of genes in four different groups of prostate cancer tissues. The sensitivity and specificity of methylation for 25 genes from 1, 2, and 4 groups and 7 from group 3 were shown. Validation of genes by pyrosequencing from group 1 (GSTP1, HIF3A, HAAO, and RARβ), group 2 (CRIP1, FLNC, RASGRF2, RUNX3, and HS3ST2), group 3 (PHLDA3, RASGRF2, and TNFRSF10D), and group 4 (BCL11B, POU3F3, and RASGRF2) confirmed the microarray results.CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a global assessment of DNA methylation in prostate cancer and identifies the significance of genes as diagnostic and progression biomarkers of prostate cancer.
Emerging evidence demonstrates that RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor in breast cancer. Inactivation of RUNX3 in mice results in spontaneous mammary gland tumors, and decreased or silenced expression of RUNX3 is frequently found in breast cancer cell lines and human breast cancer samples. However, the underlying mechanism for initiating RUNX3 inactivation in breast cancer remains elusive. Here, we identify prolyl isomerase Pin1, which is often overexpressed in breast cancer, as a key regulator of RUNX3 inactivation. In human breast cancer cell lines and breast cancer samples, expression of Pin1 inversely correlates with the expression of RUNX3. In addition, Pin1 recognizes four phosphorylated Ser/Thr-Pro motifs in RUNX3 via its WW domain. Binding of Pin1 to RUNX3 suppresses the transcriptional activity of RUNX3. Furthermore, Pin1 reduces the cellular levels of RUNX3 in an isomerase activity-dependent manner by inducing the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of RUNX3. Knocking down Pin1 enhances the cellular levels and transcriptional activity of RUNX3 by inhibiting the ubiquitination and degradation of RUNX3. Our results identify Pin1 as a new regulator of RUNX3 inactivation in breast cancer.
BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori has been recognized as a definite carcinogen for gastric cancer (GC); however, the pathogenesis of H. pylori infection remains unclear. Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a candidate tumor suppressor gene whose deficiency is causally related to GC. However, in H. pylori infection-associated GC, the role of RUNX3 has not been studied.METHODS: The authors used real-time methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction analysis to determine methylation status of the RUNX3 promoter in a spectrum of gastric lesions, including 220 samples of chronic atrophic gastritis, 196 samples of intestinal metaplasia, 134 samples of gastric adenoma, 102 samples of dysplasia, and 202 samples of GC with paired noncancerous mucosa tissues and corresponding blood specimens. The association of abnormal methylation with precancerous gastric lesions was evaluated along with the association between RUNX3 methylation and H. pylori infection, and the concordance of methylation levels was investigated between serum and tissues.RESULTS: The results indicated that increasing RUNX3 promoter methylation was correlated with distinct stages of GC progression. GC tissues had the highest methylation proportion (75.2%) compared with precancerous gastric lesions, including chronic atrophic gastritis (15.9%), intestinal metaplasia (36.7%), gastric adenoma (41.8%), and dysplasia (54.9%). H. pylori infection, a major risk factor for GC, contributed to the inactivation of RUNX3 in gastric epithelial cells through promoter hypermethylation. The levels of RUNX3 methylation in serum were in significant concordance with the methylation levels observed in GC tissues (P = .887).CONCLUSIONS: The current findings supported RUNX3 methylation as a risk factors for the carcinogenesis of chronic atrophic gastritis with H. pylori infection and indicated that circulating RUNX3 methylation is a valuable biomarker for the detection of early GC.
Author information:(1)Department of Hepatitis Treatment Center, Zhangzhou, China.
RUNX family proteins are critical regulators of lineage differentiation during development. The high prevalence of RUNX mutation/epigenetic inactivation in human cancer indicates a causative role for dysfunctional RUNX in carcinogenesis. This is supported by well-documented evidence of functional interaction of RUNX with components of major oncogenic or tumor suppressive signaling pathways such as TGFβ and Wnt. Here, we explore the binding partners of RUNX3 proteins to further define the scope of RUNX3 function. Using a mass spectrometry-based approach, we found that RUNX3 binds to centrosomal protein rootletin. This led us to uncover the presence of RUNX proteins at the centrosome. Our findings suggest a potential function for RUNX3 during mitosis.
Loss or decreased expression of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), a tumor suppressor gene involved in gastric and other cancers, has been frequently observed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The objective of this study was to identify the regulatory mechanism of the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by RUNX3 in HCC. Human HCC cell lines, Hep3B, Huh7, HLF and SK-Hep1, were divided into low- and high-EMT lines, based on their expression of TWIST1 and SNAI2, and were used in this in vitro study. Ectopic RUNX3 expression had an anti-EMT effect in low-EMT HCC cell lines characterized by increased E-cadherin expression and decreased N-cadherin and vimentin expression. RUNX3 expression has previously been reported to reduce jagged-1 (JAG1) expression; therefore, JAG1 ligand peptide was used to reinduce EMT in RUNX3-expressing low-EMT HCC cells. Immunohistochemical analyses were performed for RUNX3, E-cadherin, N-cadherin and TWIST1 in 33 human HCC tissues, also divided into low- and high-EMT HCC, based on TWIST1 expression. E-cadherin expression was correlated positively and N-cadherin expression was correlated negatively with RUNX3 expression in low-EMT HCC tissues. Correlations between EMT markers and RUNX3 mRNA expression were analyzed using Oncomine datasets. Similarly, mRNA expression of E-cadherin was also significantly correlated with that of RUNX3 in low-EMT HCC, while mRNA expression of JAG1 was negatively correlated with that of RUNX3. These results suggest a novel mechanism by which loss or decreased expression of RUNX3 induces EMT via induction of JAG1 expression in low-EMT HCC.
The adhesion molecule ICAM-3 belongs to the immunoglobulin gene superfamily and functions as a ligand for the β2 integrins LFA-1, Mac-1 and α(d)β(2). The expression of ICAM-3 is restricted to cells of the hematopoietic lineage. We present evidences that the ICAM-3 gene promoter exhibits a leukocyte-specific activity, as its activity is significantly higher in ICAM-3+ hematopoietic cell lines. The activity of the ICAM-3 gene promoter is dependent on the occupancy of RUNX cognate sequences both in vitro and in vivo, and whose integrity is required for RUNX responsiveness and for the cooperative actions of RUNX with transcription factors of the Ets and C/EBP families. Protein analysis revealed that ICAM-3 levels diminish upon monocyte-derived macrophage differentiation, monocyte transendothelial migration and dendritic cell maturation, changes that correlate with an increase in RUNX3. Importantly, disruption of RUNX-binding sites led to enhanced promoter activity, and small interfering RNA-mediated reduction of RUNX3 expression resulted in increased ICAM-3 mRNA levels. Altogether these results indicate that the ICAM-3 gene promoter is negatively regulated by RUNX transcription factors, which contribute to the leukocyte-restricted and the regulated expression of ICAM-3 during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation and monocyte extravasation.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of 21-23 nucleotide RNA molecules that play critical roles in the regulation of various cancers, including human lung cancer. Among them, miR-26a has been identified as a tumor-related regulator in several cancers, but its pathophysiologic properties and correlation with the development of human lung cancer remain unclear. In this study, it was determined that miR-26a expression is clearly down-regulated in human lung cancer tissues relative to normal tissues. Meanwhile, the overexpression of miR-26a in the A549 human lung cancer cell line dramatically inhibited cell proliferation, blocked G1/S phase transition, induced apoptosis, and inhibited cell metastasis and invasion in vitro. In contrast, a miR-26a inhibitor was used to transfect A549 cells, and the inhibition of endogenous miR-26a promoted cell metastasis and invasion. In addition, miR-26a expression inhibited the expression of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) and transactivated downstream target genes, including disabled homolog 2 (Drosophila) interacting protein gene (DAB2IP) and human Runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3), which suggests that EZH2 is a potential target of miR-26a as previously reported. In conclusion, miR-26a plays an important role as an anti-oncogene in the molecular mechanism of human lung cancer and could potentially be used for the treatment of lung cancer.
KIR2DL4 is unique among human KIR genes in expression, cellular localization, structure, and function, yet the transcription factors required for its expression have not been identified. Using mutagenesis, EMSA, and cotransfection assays, we identified two redundant Runx binding sites in the 2DL4 promoter as essential for constitutive 2DL4 transcription, with contributions by a cyclic AMP response element (CRE) and initiator elements. IL-2- and IL-15-stimulated human NK cell lines increased 2DL4 promoter activity, which required functional Runx, CRE, and Ets sites. Chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments show that Runx3 and Ets1 bind the 2DL4 promoter in situ. 2DL4 promoter activity had similar transcription factor requirements in T cells. Runx, CRE, and Ets binding motifs are present in 2DL4 promoters from across primate species, but other postulated transcription factor binding sites are not preserved. Differences between 2DL4 and clonally restricted KIR promoters suggest a model that explains the unique 2DL4 expression pattern in human NK cells.
Here we presented that the expression of RUNX3 was significantly decreased in 75 cases of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC) tissues (p<0.05). Enforced RUNX3 expression mediated 786-O cells to exhibit inhibition of growth, G1 cell-cycle arrest and metastasis in vitro, and to lost tumorigenicity in nude mouse model in vivo. RUNX3-induced growth suppression was found partially to regulate various proteins, including inhibition of cyclinD1, cyclinE, cdk2, cdk4 and p-Rb, but increase of p27(Kip1), Rb and TIMP-1. Therefore, RUNX3 had the function of inhibiting the proliferative and metastatic abilities of CCRCC cells by regulating cyclins and TIMP1.
Extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (EHC) is usually difficult to diagnose by bile cytology because of cellular disintegration. However, DNA samples from bile fluid can provide sufficient materials to screen for the presence of EHC. We developed DNA methylation marker panels that can be used for MethyLight assay-based detection of EHC in bile fluid specimens. The methylation status of 59 DNA methylation markers was investigated in 20 EHC and 20 non-neoplastic gallbladder tissue samples with MethyLight assay to determine cancer-specific DNA methylation markers. Through assaying cancer-specific DNA methylation markers in a training set (n = 40) and validation set (n = 45) of bile fluid specimens from patients with EHC or those without cancer, we selected suitable marker panels that were assessed for their performance in a third set (test set; n = 40). Four marker panels showed a sensitivity of 60% or more and a specificity of 100% in both the training and validation sets, whereas bile cytology displayed a sensitivity of 40% to 46% and a specificity of 100%. In an independent test set of bile fluid samples, a five-gene panel (CCND2, CDH13, GRIN2B, RUNX3, and TWIST1) detected EHC at a sensitivity of 83%, which was far higher than that of bile cytology (46%, P = 0.004). Using bile fluids, a methylation assay consisting of a five-gene panel may be useful for detecting EHC and in helping to increase the sensitivity of preoperative diagnoses.
Runx1 is expressed in skeletal elements, but its role in fracture repair has not been analyzed. We created mice with a hypomorphic Runx1 allele (Runx1(L148A) ) and generated Runx1(L148A/-) mice in which >50% of Runx1 activity was abrogated. Runx1(L148A/-) mice were viable but runted. Their growth plates had extended proliferating and hypertrophic zones, and the percentages of Sox9-, Runx2-, and Runx3-positive cells were decreased. Femoral fracture experiments revealed delayed cartilaginous callus formation, and the expression of chondrogenic markers was decreased. Conditional ablation of Runx1 in the mesenchymal progenitor cells of the limb with Prx1-Cre conferred no obvious limb phenotype; however, cartilaginous callus formation was delayed following fracture. Embryonic limb bud-derived mesenchymal cells showed delayed chondrogenesis when the Runx1 allele was deleted ex vivo with adenoviral-expressed Cre. Collectively, our data suggest that Runx1 is required for commitment and differentiation of chondroprogenitor cells into the chondrogenic lineage.
BACKGROUND: T lymphocytes are orchestrators of adaptive immunity. Naïve T cells may differentiate into Th1, Th2, Th17 or iTreg phenotypes, depending on environmental co-stimulatory signals. To identify genes and pathways involved in differentiation of Jurkat T cells towards Th1 and Th2 subtypes we performed comprehensive transcriptome analyses of Jurkat T cells stimulated with various stimuli and pathway inhibitors. Results from these experiments were validated in a human experimental setting using whole blood and purified CD4+ Tcells.RESULTS: Calcium-dependent activation of T cells using CD3/CD28 and PMA/CD3 stimulation induced a Th1 expression profile reflected by increased expression of T-bet, RUNX3, IL-2, and IFNγ, whereas calcium-independent activation via PMA/CD28 induced a Th2 expression profile which included GATA3, RXRA, CCL1 and Itk. Knock down with siRNA and gene expression profiling in the presence of selective kinase inhibitors showed that proximal kinases Lck and PKCθ are crucial signaling hubs during T helper cell activation, revealing a clear role for Lck in Th1 development and for PKCθ in both Th1 and Th2 development. Medial signaling via MAPkinases appeared to be less important in these pathways, since specific inhibitors of these kinases displayed a minor effect on gene expression. Translation towards a primary, whole blood setting and purified human CD4+ T cells revealed that PMA/CD3 stimulation induced a more pronounced Th1 specific, Lck and PKCθ dependent IFNγ production, whereas PMA/CD28 induced Th2 specific IL-5 and IL-13 production, independent of Lck activation. PMA/CD3-mediated skewing towards a Th1 phenotype was also reflected in mRNA expression of the master transcription factor Tbet, whereas PMA/CD28-mediated stimulation enhanced GATA3 mRNA expression in primary human CD4+ Tcells.CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies stimulatory pathways and gene expression profiles for in vitro skewing of T helper cell activation. PMA/CD3 stimulation enhances a Th1-like response in an Lck and PKCθ dependent fashion, whereas PMA/CD28 stimulation results in a Th2-like phenotype independent of the proximal TCR-tyrosine kinase Lck. This approach offers a robust and fast translational in vitro system for skewed T helper cell responses in Jurkat T cells, primary human CD4+ Tcells and in a more complex matrix such as human whole blood.
We aimed to identify the specific subset of tumor suppressor genes (TSGs) that are methylation-silenced during the earliest steps of hepatocarcinogenesis, and to further evaluate whether these genes can serve as predictive biomarkers of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) emergence. A total of 482 liver tissues including 177 pairs of HCCs and matched nontumor livers and 128 liver biopsies from chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients were analyzed for quantitative methylation analysis in 24 TSG promoters and three MINT loci. The tumors were classified as early, less-progressed, and highly progressed HCCs using histology and radiological approaches. A subset of TSGs that harbored distinctly high levels of methylation in early HCCs were selected. Based on the methylation profiles of these genes, Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed to determine time-to-HCC occurrence in CHC patients. Subsequently, multivariate analysis was performed using age, gender, fibrosis stage, and number of methylated TSGs as covariates. Among TSGs analyzed, a subset of eight TSGs (HIC1, GSTP1, SOCS1, RASSF1, CDKN2A, APC, RUNX3, and PRDM2) demonstrated a distinct cluster by hierarchical clustering and receiver operating characteristic analyses. This subset of TSGs showed significantly higher methylation levels in the early HCCs (P < 0.0001). In the CHC patients, methylation frequencies in these TSGs were associated with shorter time-to-HCC occurrence (P < 0.0001), and number of methylated genes was an independent risk factor for HCC (hazard ratio = 5.21, 95% confidence interval = 2.25-11.76, P = 0.0002).CONCLUSION: Epigenetic inactivation of a subset of TSGs plays a critical role in the earliest steps of hepatocarcinogenesis. Furthermore, epigenetic inactivation of these genes in CHC provides a prognostic value for determining the risk for developing HCC later in life.
Runx transcription factor family proteins have essential roles during T-cell development by either activating or repressing target genes. For instance, lineage- and stage-specific expression of Cd4 and ThPOK is controlled by a transcriptional silencer embedded in each locus, whose activity requires bindings of Runx complexes. The evolutionarily conserved VWRPY penta-peptide sequences in Runx proteins have been shown to be responsible for repressive function as a platform to recruit Groucho/TLE transcriptional corepressors. However, it remains elusive whether requirement for the VWRPY motif differs among Runx target genes. By examining mice lacking VWRPY motifs in both Runx1 and Runx3 proteins, here, we show a full and partial derepression of Cd4 and ThPOK in CD8-linegae T cells, respectively. Thus, whereas Cd4 silencing completely depends on the VWRPY motif, both VWRPY-dependent and -independent mechanisms operate to repress ThPOK gene. These results indicate that Runx proteins utilize different modes to repress expression of different target genes.
AIMS: To elucidate how the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors expressed on bronchial and oral epithelial cells targeted by the tobacco nitrosamine (4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone) (NNK) facilitate carcinogenic transformation.MAIN METHODS: Since NNK-dependent transformation can be abolished by the nicotinergic secreted mammalian Ly-6/urokinase plasminogen activator receptor related protein-1 (SLURP-1), we compared effects of NNK and recombinant (r)SLURP-1 on the expression of genes related to tumorigenesis in human immortalized bronchial and oral epithelial cell lines BEP2D and Het-1A, respectively.KEY FINDINGS: NNK stimulated expression of oncogenic genes, including MYB and PIK3CA in BEP2D, ETS1, NRAS and SRC in Het-1A, and AKT1, KIT and RB1 in both cell types, which could be abolished in the presence of rSLURP-1. Other cancer-related genes whose upregulation by NNK was abolishable by rSLURP-1 were the growth factors EGF in BEP2D cells and HGF in Het-1A cells, and the transcription factors CDKN2A and STAT3 (Het-1A only). NNK also upregulated the anti-apoptotic BCL2 (Het-1A) and downregulated the pro-apoptotic TNF (Het-1A), BAX and CASP8 (BEP2D), all of which could be abolished, in part, by rSLURP-1. NNK decreased expression of the CTNNB1 gene encoding the intercellular adhesion molecule β-catenin (BEP2D), as well as tumor suppressors CDKN3 and FOXD3 in BEP2D cells and SERPINB5 in Het-1A cells. These pro-oncogenic effects of NNK were abolished by rSLURP-1 that also upregulated RUNX3.SIGNIFICANCE: The obtained results identified target genes for both NNK and SLURP-1 and shed light on the molecular mechanism of their reciprocal effects on tumorigenic transformation of bronchial and oral epithelial cells.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: We have previously reported that RUNX3 inactivation by promoter hypermethylation correlated with advanced disease and poor clinical outcome in bladder cancer. In this study, we examined primary tumors from non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) patients in order to investigate the relationship between RUNX3 methylation and disease progression.METHODS: The association between the hypermethylation of RUNX3 and clinicopathological characteristics of 186 NMIBC samples was analyzed using methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MS-PCR).RESULTS: RUNX3 methylation was associated with increased tumor stage, grade, and number of tumors (each P < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier estimates revealed significant differences in time to recurrence and progression based on RUNX3 methylation status (P = 0.043 and 0.006, respectively). RUNX3 methylation was an independent predictor of NMIBC progression on univariate and multivariate analysis. Combining tumor grade and RUNX3 methylation status demonstrated that patients with G3 tumors with RUNX3 methylation had a worse progression-free survival compared with the patients with lower-grade or unmethylated tumors [hazard ratio (HR), 19.450].CONCLUSIONS: RUNX3 methylation status predicted the risk of NMIBC progression independently of tumor stage. In conjunction with tumor grade, RUNX3 methylation status in patients with NMIBC strongly predicts disease progression.
BACKGROUND: This study aimed to evaluate the expression level of runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) in human primary hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs) and its relationship with the clinic pathological features.METHODS: RUNX3 expression was analyzed by real-time fluorescent quantitative PCR, immunohistochemistry and Western blotting in HCC cells and tissues.RESULTS: RUNX3 RNA and protein expression was decreased in HCC tissues compared with the adjacent normal tissues (P< 0.001), mRNA frequently being down-regulated in HCC cell lines (66.67%, 4/6). Low expression of RUNX3 showed a significant correlation with cirrhosis (P = 0.028), histologic type (P = 0.000) and lymph node metastasis (P= 0.004).CONCLUSION: RUNX3 expression is deleted or decreased in HCCs and cell lines, in association with progression and prognosis.
Emerging evidence indicates that RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor in breast cancer. RUNX3 is frequently inactivated in human breast cancer cell lines and cancer samples by hemizygous deletion of the Runx3 gene, hypermethylation of the Runx3 promoter, or cytoplasmic sequestration of RUNX3 protein. Inactivation of RUNX3 is associated with the initiation and progression of breast cancer. Female Runx3(+/-) mice spontaneously develop ductal carcinoma, and overexpression of RUNX3 inhibits the proliferation, tumorigenic potential, and invasiveness of breast cancer cells. This review is intended to summarize these findings and discuss the tumor suppressor function of RUNX3 in breast cancer.
Runt domain transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) is a tumor suppressor that is silenced in cancer via hypermethylation of its promoter. This study investigated the mechanisms involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced silencing of RUNX3 in terms of epigenetic alteration since the effects of oxidative stress in tumor suppressor gene transcription are largely unknown. RUNX3 mRNA and protein expressions were down-regulated in response to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) in the human colorectal cancer cell line SNU-407. This down-regulation was abolished with pretreatment of the ROS scavenger, N-acetylcysteine (NAC). Moreover, methylation-specific PCR data revealed that H(2)O(2) treatment increased RUNX3 promoter methylation; however, NAC and the cytosine methylation inhibitor, 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-Aza-dC), decreased it, suggesting that an epigenetic regulatory mechanism by ROS-induced methylation may be involved in RUNX3 silencing. H(2)O(2) treatment resulted in DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) and histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) up-regulation with increased expression and activity, increased binding of DNMT1 to HADC1, and increased DNMT1 binding to the RUNX3 promoter. In addition, 5-Aza-dC treatment prevented the decrease in RUNX3 mRNA and protein levels by H(2)O(2) treatment. Additionally, H(2)O(2) treatment inhibited the nuclear localization and expression of RUNX3, which was abolished by NAC treatment. Furthermore, the down-regulation of RUNX3 expression by H(2)O(2) also influenced cell proliferation. Taken together, the data suggested that ROS silenced the tumor suppressor, RUNX3, by epigenetic regulation and may therefore be associated with the progression of colorectal cancer.
Infection with CagA-positive Helicobacter pylori is the strongest risk factor for gastric carcinoma. Upon delivery into gastric epithelial cells, CagA disturbs cellular functions by physically interacting with and deregulating intracellular signaling molecules via both tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent and -independent mechanisms. Runx3 was suggested to be a tumor suppressor and closely associated with tumorigenesis and progression of gastric cancer. The aim of our study is to verify the effect of H. pylori virulence factor CagA on Runx3 expression level and investigate the corresponding molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways influencing Runx3 expression. Human gastric epithelial immortalized GES-1 cells were transfected with CagA-expression vector or control vector with FuGENE HD transfection reagent. Runx3 expression levels were determined by QRT-PCR and immunoblotting. Then we constructed a 1,150 bp Runx3 promoter luciferase reporter plasmid, pGL(3)-1150 bp, which was co-transfected into GES-1 cell with CagA-expression vector or control vector. Luciferase reporter assay was used to determine the effects of CagA on the 1,150 bp promoter activity of Runx3. Signal inhibitors were used to detect the signal pathway(s) through which CagA affects Runx3. Our results showed that CagA can reduce the expression level of Runx3 at both mRNA and protein levels significantly. Importantly, the 1,150 bp Runx3 promoter activity was decreased in cells transfected with CagA-expression vector comparing with cells transfected with control vector. And this inhibition is dependent on the phosphorylation of CagA. Signal pathways Src/MEK/ERK and p38 MAPK are involved in this regulation. Our findings provide new insights for understanding the mechanism of H. pylori carcinogenesis.
Natural cytotoxicity receptor 1 (NCR1), also known as NKp46, is a natural killer (NK) lymphocyte-activating receptor. It is involved in major aspects of NK immune function and shows a high degree of lineage specificity in blood and bone marrow. The nature of its NK-restricted expression is not well understood. In this study, we confirm that human NCR1 NK-specific expression is achieved at the mRNA level. We found two key cis-regulatory elements in the immediate vicinity upstream of the gene. One element acts as an essential promoter, whereas the other acts as a tissue-dependent enhancer/repressor. This latter regulatory element contains a runt related-transcription factor (RUNX) recognition motif that preferentially binds RUNX3. Interfering with RUNX proteins using a dominant negative form results in decreased Ncr1 expression. RUNX3 overexpression had the opposite effect. These findings shed light on the role of RUNX3 in the control of an important NK-activating receptor.
The purpose of this study is to determine the methylation status of Transforming growth factor-beta-inducible gene-h3 (TGFBI) and its correlation with paclitaxel chemoresistance in ovarian cancer. The methylation status of TGFBI was examined in ovarian cancer and control groups by methylation-specific PCR (MSP) and bisulfite sequencing PCR (BSP). The TGFBI expression and cell viability were compared by Quantitative Real-Time PCR, Western Blotting and MTT assay before and after demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5-aza-dc) treatment in 6 cell lines (SKOV3, SKOV3/TR, SKOV3/DDP, A2780, 2780/TR, OVCAR8). In our results, TGFBI methylation was detected in 29/40 (72.5%) of ovarian cancer and 1/10 (10%) of benign ovarian tumors. No methylation was detected in normal ovarian tissues (P < 0.001). No statistical correlation between RUNX3 methylation and clinicopathological characteristics was observed. A significant correlation between TGFBI methylation and loss of TGFBI mRNA expression was found (P < 0.001). The methylation level of TGFBI was significantly higher in paclitaxel resistant cell lines (SKOV3/TR and 2780/TR) than that in the sensitive pairs (P < 0.001). After 5-aza-dc treatment, the relative expression of TGFBI mRNA and protein increased significantly in SKOV3/TR and A2780/TR cells. However, no statistical differences of relative TGFBI mRNA expression and protein were found in other cells (all P > 0.05), which showed that re-expression of TGFBI could reverse paclitaxel chemoresistance. Our results show that TGFBI is frequently methylated and associated with paclitaxel-resistance in ovarian cancer. TGFBI might be a potential therapeutic target for the enhancement of responses to chemotherapy in ovarian cancer patients.
Author information:(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, Changsha, China.
BACKGROUND/AIMS: Human runt-related transcription factor 3 (RUNX3) gene was a new candidate tumor suppressor gene involved in the TGF-β signaling pathway. We evaluated the diagnostic role of RUNX3 gene methylation in serum DNA of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), gastric cancer (GC) and colorectal cancer (CRC) patients.METHODOLOGY: Methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction (MSP) was used to determine the promoter methylation status of RUNX3 gene in serum DNA. The combination of RUNX3 hypermethylation and conventional tumor markers was further analyzed.RESULTS: Hypermethylation of RUNX3 was detected in 51.4% (36/70) of ESCC, 45.2% (28/62) of GC and 41.5% (27/65) of CRC patients, which was significantly higher than that of benign gastrointestinal diseases and healthy donors (p<0.001). Interestingly, aberrant RUNX3 methylation in serum DNA was associated with advanced stage (p=0.027) and lymph metastasis (p=0.032) in ESCC, but not in GC and CRC. Furthermore, the combinational analysis of CEA, CA19-9 and RUNX3 methylation showed a higher sensitivity and no reduced diagnostic specificity than CEA and CA19-9 combination in the three cancers.CONCLUSIONS: The serum RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation may be a promising biomarker for the early diagnosis of ESCC, GC and CRC, which was further confirmed by combining with CEA and CA19-9.
Activation of Akt signaling pathway has been suggested involving in chemoresistance, metastasis and tumorigenesis of gastric cancer. However, the mechanism of Akt regulation in gastric cancer is not fully understood. RUNX3, which was first identified as a transcription factor, suppresses gastric tumorigenesis through regulating expression of target genes. Here, we found that restoration of RUNX3 significantly downregulates the protein and mRNA expression of Akt1 in gastric cancer cell lines, AGS and SNU-1. Knockdown of RUNX3 upregulates protein and mRNA expression of Akt1 in normal gastric epithelial cell line, GES-1. The negative correlation of RUNX3 and Akt expression and downstream β-catenin/cyclin D1 effectors was further confirmed in AGS and GES-1 cell lines, as well as clinical specimens of gastric cancer. We identified two RUNX3-binding sites in Akt1 promoter and the binding of RUNX3 on Akt1 promoter significantly inhibits Akt1 expression. The RUNX3-mediated inhibition of Akt1 caused β-catenin protein degradation and then cyclin D1 downregulation. Restoration of cyclin D1 reverses cell growth inhibition and G1 phase arrest induced by RUNX3 in gastric cancer cells. Our results show that loss of RUNX3 expression can enhance the Akt1-mediated signaling pathway and promote the tumorigenesis process in human gastric cancer.
The neoplastic transformation by mutant RAS is thought to require remodeling of expression of an entire set of genes. However, the underlying mechanism for initiation of gene expression remodeling in tumorigenesis remains elusive. This study was aimed to define the oncogenic role of EZH2, a histone modifier protein that is induced by oncogenic mutant RAS, using pancreatic cancers of transgenic rats exogenously expressing human mutant RAS. Immunohistochemical observation of preneoplastic or cancerous lesions in the animal model suggested that upregulation of Ezh2 protein is an initiating event in pancreatic carcinogenesis. MEK-inhibition or Elk-1-knockdown downregulated EZH2, and MEK-inhibition or EZH2-knockdown restored expression of a tumor suppressor, RUNX3 in human and rat pancreatic cancer cells activated by the oncogenic RAS. Furthermore, Elk-1- or EZH2-knockdown inhibited growth of the cancer cells. These results strongly suggested that the oncogenic RAS upregulates EZH2 through MEK-ERK signaling, resulted in downregulation of tumor suppressors including RUNX3 in pancreatic carcinogenesis.
AIM: To evaluate the clinical significance of CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP) in plasma and its association with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progress.METHODS: CIMP status of 108 HCC patients was analyzed using a methylation marker panel in tumor tissues and plasma with methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction. Fifteen samples of non-neoplastic liver tissues and 60 of plasma from healthy persons were examined simultaneously. Examined genes included APC, WIF-1, RUNX-3, DLC-1, SFRP-1, DKK and E-cad.RESULTS: The frequencies of high-level methylation in HCC tissue and plasma were at least 15% for the seven genes: APC, 48/108, 44.44% in tissue and 26/108, 24.07% in plasma; WIF-1, 53/108, 49.07% in tissue and 35/108, 32.41% in plasma; RUNX-3, 52/108, 48.14% in tissue and 42/108, 38.89% in plasma; DLC-1, 38/108, 35.18% in tissue and 23/108, 21.30% in plasma; SFRP-1, 40/108, 37.04% in tissue and 31/108, 28.7% in plasma; DKK, 39/108, 36.1% in tissue and 25/108, 23.14% in plasma; and E-cad, 37/108, 34.3% in tissue and 18/108, 16.67% in plasma. CIMP+ (≥ 3 methylated genes) was detected in 68 (60.2%) tumor tissue samples and 62 (57.4%) plasma samples. CIMP was not detected in non-neoplastic liver tissues or plasma of healthy persons. CIMP status in tumor tissues differed significantly in gender, hepatitis B surface antigen, alpha-fetoprotein, and tumor-node-metastasis stage (P < 0.05). Similar results were obtained with plasma samples (P < 0.05). There was no difference in CIMP status in age, presence of hepatitis C virus antibody, cirrhosis, number of nodes, number of tumors, tumor size, or Edmondson-Steiner stage. A one-year follow-up found that the metastatic rate and recurrence rate in the CIMP+ group were significantly higher than in the CIMP- group as assessed with plasma samples (P < 0.05).CONCLUSION: Plasma DNA can be a reliable sample source for CIMP analysis. CIMP in plasma may serve as a molecular marker of late-stage and poor-prognosis HCC.
PURPOSE: Epigenetic therapy has had a significant impact on the management of haematologic malignancies. The aim of this study was to assess whether 5-aza-CdR and TSA inhibit the growth of leukaemia cells and induce caspase-3-dependent apoptosis by upregulating RUNX3 expression.METHODS: K562 and Reh cells were treated with 5-aza-CdR, TSA or both compounds. RT-PCR and Western blot analyses were used to examine the expression of RUNX3 at the mRNA and protein levels, respectively. Immunofluorescence microscopy was used to detect the cellular location of RUNX3. Additionally, after K562 cells were transfected with RUNX3, apoptosis and proliferation were studied using Annexin V staining and MTT assays.RESULTS: The expression of RUNX3 in leukaemia cell lines was markedly less than that in the controls. Demethylating drug 5-aza-CdR could induce RUNX3 expression, but the combination of TSA and 5-aza-CdR had a greater effect than did treatment with a single compound. The combination of 5-aza-CdR and TSA induced the translocation of RUNX3 from the cytoplasm into the nucleus. TSA enhanced apoptosis induced by 5-aza-CdR, and Annexin V and Hoechst 33258 staining showed that the combination induced apoptosis but not necrosis. Furthermore, apoptosis was dependent on the caspase-3 pathway. RUNX3 overexpression in K562 cells led to growth inhibition and apoptosis and potentiated the effects of 5-aza-CdR induction.CONCLUSION: RUNX3 plays an important role in leukaemia cellular functions, and the induction of RUNX3-mediated effects may contribute to the therapeutic value of combination TSA and 5-aza-CdR treatment.
AIM: To detect the effects of plasma DNA methylation of Wnt antagonists/inhibitors on recurrence of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).METHODS: We used methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction to detect hypermethylation of the promoter of four Wnt antagonists/inhibitors (SFRP-1, WIF-1, DKK-3 and RUNX3) using DNA from the plasma of ESCC patients (n = 81) and analyzed the association between promoter hypermethylation of Wnt pathway modulator genes and the two-year recurrence of ESCC.RESULTS: Hypermethylation of SFRP-1, DKK-3 and RUNX-3 was significantly associated with an increased risk of ESCC recurrence (P = 0.001, 0.003 and 0.001 for SFRP-1, DKK-3 and RUNX3, respectively). Patients carrying two to three methylated genes had a significantly elevated risk of recurrence compared with those not carrying methylated genes (odds ratio = 15.69, 95% confidential interval: 2.97-83). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was 77.1 for ESCC recurrence prediction (sensitivity = 66.67 and specificity = 83.3). When combining methylated genes and the clinical stage, the AUC was 83.69, with a sensitivity of 76.19 and a specificity of 83.3.CONCLUSION: The status of promoter hypermethylation of Wnt antagonists/inhibitors in plasma may serve as a non-invasive prognostic biomarker for ESCC.
Runt-related transcription factors (RUNX1, RUNX2, and RUNX3) are key lineage-specific regulators of progenitor cell growth and differentiation but also function pathologically as cancer genes that contribute to tumorigenesis. RUNX2 attenuates growth and stimulates maturation of osteoblasts during bone formation but is also robustly expressed in a subset of osteosarcomas, as well as in metastatic breast and prostate tumors. To assess the biological function of RUNX2 in osteosarcoma cells, we examined human genomic promoter interactions for RUNX2 using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-microarray analysis in SAOS-2 cells. Promoter binding of both RUNX2 and RNA polymerase II was compared with gene expression profiles of cells in which RUNX2 was depleted by RNA interference. Many RUNX2-bound loci (1550 of 2339 total) exhibit promoter occupancy by RNA polymerase II and contain the RUNX consensus motif 5'-((T/A/C)G(T/A/C)GG(T/G). Gene ontology analysis indicates that RUNX2 controls components of multiple signaling pathways (e.g. WNT, TGFβ, TNFα, and interleukins), as well as genes linked to cell motility and adhesion (e.g. the focal adhesion-related genes FAK/PTK2 and TLN1). Our results reveal that siRNA depletion of RUNX2, PTK2, or TLN1 diminishes motility of U2OS osteosarcoma cells. Thus, RUNX2 binding to diverse gene loci may support the biological properties of osteosarcoma cells.
AIM: We carried out a case-control study in an Omani Arab population to investigate the association between gastric cancer and peripheral blood leukocyte DNA methylation in LINE-1 and in the tumor suppressor genes CDH1, p16, TP53 and RUNX3.MATERIALS & METHODS: We quantified methylation (%5-mC) in DNA extracted from peripheral blood leukocytes via pyrosequencing. We calculated odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CIs using logistic regression.RESULTS: We found patterns of global hypomethylation (LINE-1: OR(continuous) = 0.59; 95% CI: 0.42-0.82) and TP53 promoter hypomethylation (OR(continuous) = 0.64; 95% CI: 0.16-0.85) for cases versus controls; p16 promoter region hypomethylation was not statistically significant. Evaluating LINE-1, TP53 and p16 jointly yielded a more pronounced negative association with gastric cancer (OR: 0.24; 95% CI: 0.09-0.66). Age was a significant effect modifier. We found no differences by tumor grade, stage or histology.CONCLUSION: We found a pattern of global hypomethylation and promoter region hypomethylation of TP53 and p16 in cases versus controls for this population of Omani Arabs.
Gastric carcinoma (GC) is a biologically heterogeneous disease involving numerous genetic and epigenetic alterations. A very small proportion of GCs can be caused by a specific germ-line mutation of the E-cadherin gene (CDH1). Sporadic GC is developed through multistep processes that begin with Helicobacter pylori-induced atrophic gastritis. Epstein-Barr virus is another infectious cause of GC, and the above two infection-associated GCs are characterized by global CpG island methylation in the promoter region of cancer-related genes. Mutations of tumor protein p53 (TP53) and β-catenin (CTNNB1) genes occur early in the development of GC and contribute to gastric carcinogenesis. Furthermore, significant numbers of GCs show loss of Runx3 due to hemizygous deletion and hypermethylation of the promoter region. Aberrant Cdx2 expression has been shown in precancerous lesions as well as GC. However, it remains unclear whether Cdx2 plays an oncogenic role in gastric carcinogenesis. GC with microsatellite instability is also a well-defined subset exhibiting distinctive clinicopathologic features. Targeted therapy against GC with ERBB2 amplification recently improved the prognosis of patients with advanced GC. In addition, epigenetic changes in GC could be attractive targets for cancer treatment with modulators. A genome-wide search has been undertaken to identify novel methylation-silenced genes in GC, which will help us understand the overall molecular features of GC and further provide novel opportunities in the treatment of GC.
Touch sensation is mediated by specific subtypes of sensory neurons which develop in a hierarchical process from common early progenitor neurons, but the molecular mechanism that underlies diversification of touch-sensitive mechanoreceptive neurons is not fully known. Here, we use genetically manipulated mice to examine whether the transcription factor short stature homeobox 2 (Shox2) participates in the acquisition of neuronal subtypes conveying touch sensation. We show that Shox2 encodes the development of category I low-threshold mechanoreceptive neurons in glabrous skin, i.e. discriminative touch-sensitive neurons which form innervations of epidermal Merkel cell and Meissner corpuscles. In contrast, other sensory fiber endings, including those innervating Pacinian corpuscles, are not dependent on Shox2. Shox2 is expressed in neurons of most or all classes of sensory neurons at early embryonic stages and is later confined to touch-sensitive neurons expressing Ret and/or TrkB. Conditional deletion of Shox2 and analysis of Runx3(-/-);Bax(-/-) mutant mice reveals that Runx3 is suppressing Shox2 while Shox2 is necessary for TrkB expression, and that these interactions are necessary for diversification of TrkB(+) and TrkC(+) mechanoreceptive neurons. In particular, development of TrkB(+)/Ret(+) and TrkB(+)/Ret(-) touch-sensitive neurons is critically dependent on Shox2. Consistently, Shox2 conditional mutant mice demonstrate a dramatic impairment of light touch responses. These results show that Shox2 is required for specification of a subclass of TrkB(+) sensory neurons which convey the sensation of discriminative touch arising from stimuli of the skin.
RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor gene localized in 1p36. In various human tumors, the region is frequently inactivated through hypermethylation, histone modulation and other processes. Recent studies have suggested that loss of RUNX3 expression is involved in stomach, colon and breast cancer. However, the relationship between RUNX3 expression and giant cell tumor of the bone (GCTB) remains elusive. The aim of our study was to elucidate the roles of RUNX3 expression in carcinogenesis and progression of giant cell tumor of the bone. The levels of RUNX3 mRNA and protein were evaluated in human GCTB specimens and cell lines. To assess RUNX3 methylation we employed methylation-specific polymerase chain reaction using GCTB specimens and cell lines. In addition, to examine the roles of RUNX3 in giant cell tumor of the bone, GCTB cells were transfected with pcDNA3.1-RUNX3 (RUNX3 was cloned into the pcDNA3.1 plasmid). Flow cytometry (FCM) was used to analyze the apoptosis and cell cycle. The mobility of cells was tested by transwell migration assay. The expression rates of RUNX3 in patients with GCTB were significanly lower than normal bone tissues. Thirty of 47 human cancer specimens exhibited suppression (P<0.05). Down-regulation of RUNX3 mRNA in the same GCTB cell lines was associated with RUNX3 DNA methylation. In in vitro experiments, exogenous expression of RUNX3 strongly inhibited cell growth in GCTB by MTT (P<0.05), induced apoptosis as evidenced by Annexin V-FITC and increased G1 phase ratio by PI (P<0.05). Transwell migration assay showed that less RUNX3 positive cells migrated to the lower side of the membrane than negative ones (P<0.05). These results show that RUNX3 is a tumor suppressor in GCTB. RUNX3 DNA methylation may be the molecular basis for its lower expression. These data may be applied in GCTB for diagnostics and therapeutics.
Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common extracranial pediatric solid tumor with an undifferentiated status and generally poor prognosis, but the basis for these characteristics remains unknown. In this study, we show that upregulation of the Polycomb protein histone methyltransferase EZH2, which limits differentiation in many tissues, is critical to maintain the undifferentiated state and poor prognostic status of NB by epigenetic repression of multiple tumor suppressor genes. We identified this role for EZH2 by examining the regulation of CASZ1, a recently identified NB tumor suppressor gene whose ectopic restoration inhibits NB cell growth and induces differentiation. Reducing EZH2 expression by RNA interference-mediated knockdown or pharmacologic inhibiton with 3-deazaneplanocin A increased CASZ1 expression, inhibited NB cell growth, and induced neurite extension. Similarly, EZH2(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) displayed 3-fold higher levels of CASZ1 mRNA compared with EZH2(+/+) MEFs. In cells with increased expression of CASZ1, treatment with histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor decreased expression of EZH2 and the Polycomb Repressor complex component SUZ12. Under steady-state conditions, H3K27me3 and PRC2 components bound to the CASZ1 gene were enriched, but this enrichment was decreased after HDAC inhibitor treatment. We determined that the tumor suppressors CLU, NGFR, and RUNX3 were also directly repressed by EZH2 like CASZ1 in NB cells. Together, our findings establish that aberrant upregulation of EZH2 in NB cells silences several tumor suppressors, which contribute to the genesis and maintenance of the undifferentiated phenotype of NB tumors.
Although DNA methylation profiles in breast cancer have been connected to breast cancer molecular subtype, there have been no studies of the association of DNA methylation with stem cell phenotype. This study was designed to evaluate the promoter CpG island methylation of 15 genes in relation to breast cancer subtype, and to investigate whether the patterns of CpG island methylation in each subtype are associated with their cancer stem cell phenotype represented by CD44+/CD24- and ALDH1 expression. We performed MethyLight analysis of the methylation status of 15 promoter CpG island loci involved in breast cancer progression (APC, DLEC1, GRIN2B, GSTP1, HOXA1, HOXA10, IGF2, MT1G, RARB, RASSF1A, RUNX3, SCGB3A1, SFRP1, SFRP4, and TMEFF2) and determined cancer stem cell phenotype by CD44/CD24 and ALDH1 immunohistochemistry in 36 luminal A, 33 luminal B, 30 luminal-HER2, 40 HER2 enriched, and 40 basal-like subtypes of breast cancer. The number of CpG island loci methylated differed significantly between subtypes, and was highest in the luminal-HER2 subtype and lowest in the basal-like subtype. Methylation frequencies and levels in 12 of the 15 genes differed significantly between subtypes, and the basal-like subtype had significantly lower methylation frequencies and levels in nine of the genes than the other subtypes. CD44+/CD24- and ALDH1+ putative stem cell populations were most enriched in the basal-like subtype. Methylation of promoter CpG islands was significantly lower in CD44+/CD24-cell (+) tumors than in CD44+/CD24-cell (-) tumors, even within the basal-like subtype. ALDH1 (+) tumors were also less methylated than ALDH1 (-) tumors. Our findings showed that promoter CpG island methylation was different in relation to breast cancer subtype and stem cell phenotype of tumor, suggesting that breast cancers have distinct patterns of CpG island methylation according to molecular subtypes and these are associated with different stem cell phenotypes of the tumor.
